GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE,
WELCOME TO THE JUNE 2ND MEETING
OF THE NRA CITY COUNCIL IF
YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
>> I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG OF THE UNITED IN AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY,
JUSTICE FOR ALL
WHAT OUR CLARK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ABSENT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON ABSENT
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER GOZI EDWYN HERE,
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE, COUNCIL
MEMBER IGHER ABSENT COUNCILMAN
BRACKMAN HERE, COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S HERE, COUNCIL MEMBER
COLONEL ABSENT WE HAVE A QUORUM
THE MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
THE AGENDA IS PROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR KNOW WHERE?
>> WE DO HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
NUMBER OF INTRODUCTIONS TODAY
OUR FIRST INTRODUCTION IS FROM
THE CHAIR OUR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION CHAIR CARTER CHAIR
CARTER, YOU HAVE THE
THAT
EVENING MAYOR, CITY
ADMINISTRATOR, COUNCIL PEOPLE.
IT'S GOOD TO BE HERE WITH YOU.
WE HAVE A BIT TO REPORT TODAY.
WE HAD OUR FIRST ANNUAL JUD
WALTON MEMORIAL SOCIAL JUSTICE
SYMPOSIUM AND WE HELD THAT WE
WERE SO HAPPY TO BE HOSTED BY
WASHTENAW COMMUNITY COLLEGE.
THEY WERE JUST AS WE WERE JUST
AS PLEASED AS COULD BE.
WE PLANNED BETWEEN NINETY AND
100 HUNDRED PEOPLE AND THEY
WERE VERY FEW CHAIRS DESPITE
THE RAIN WE THOUGHT THAT MIGHT
KEEP PEOPLE AWAY AND WE WERE
JOINED BY SOME MEMBERS OF THE
POLICE ACADEMY THAT MEETS THEIR
WASHTENAW COMMUNITY COLLEGE.
SO IT WAS IT WAS QUITE A NICE,
NICE AFFAIR.
DR ALEXANDER WAS VERY A VERY
GOOD SPEAKER AND EVERYONE
ENJOYED FOLLOWING THAT.
WE'RE THINKING WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT HAVING PRESENTATIONS AT
OUR REGULAR MEETINGS HOPEFULLY
AGAIN TO GET THE INTEREST
OF THE COMMUNITY.
HAVE PEOPLE COME OUT AND AT OUR
LAST MEETING FOR THIS YEAR
WHICH WILL BE JUNE WE DON'T
MEET IN JULY OR AUGUST.
SO IN JUNE WE ARE PLANNING WE
WON'T BE HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS.
WE'RE PLANNING TO BE AT ONE
OF THE LIBRARY'S POSSIBLE THE
WEST BRANCH.
WE'RE NOT SURE YET THAT WE'LL
GO THERE.
WE'LL GO OUT IN AN EMAIL BUT WE
ARE WE'VE ASKED DR
KEVIN KARPIAK AND I KNOW THAT
SOME OF YOU ARE FAMILIAR WITH
DR KARPIAK BUT HE IS A VERY
WELL KNOWN EXPERT ON POLICE AND
HE SPOKE FOR JUST A FEW MINUTES
AT THIS SYMPOSIUM ABOUT THE
HISTORY OF POLICING WHICH WAS
VERY INTERESTING AND WE GOT A
LOT OF COMMENTS BACK AND SO
WE'VE INVITED HIM TO COME SPEAK
FOR ABOUT AN HOUR AT THE
BEGINNING OF OUR MEETING.
SO IF ANY THE THE COMMUNITY IS
INVITED TO COME OUT, I THINK
YOU'RE GOING TO ENJOY AND LEARN
A LOT AND IF YOU DON'T WANT TO
STAY FOR THE REST OF THE
MEETING, THAT WILL BE FINE AS
WELL.
SO THAT IS OUR MEETING IN THE
LAST TUESDAY IN JUNE.
WE ARE LOSING ONE OF OUR
INITIAL MEMBERS, COMMISSIONER
BARNESVILLE UPS.
HIS LAST MEETING WAS WAS IN MAY
AND WE ARE CERTAINLY SORRY TO
LOSE HIM.
SO THERE WILL BE A VACANCY
AND
SO IF ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO
APPLY WE'RE HAPPY TO TO TAKE
APPLICANTS AS COMMISSIONERS ON
THE POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
WE ARE WE WILL BE HAVING A
TABLE AS WE DID LAST YEAR.
JUNETEENTH WILL BE JOINED BY
TWO OTHER COMMISSIONERS, THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITIES.
AND AT THAT TIME WE PASS ON
INFORMATION AND A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE INTERESTED IN WHAT'S GOING
ON.
WE WILL ALSO HAVE A TABLE AT
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN DOWNTOWN
FESTIVAL THIS COMING SATURDAY
AND JUNETEENTH IS NEXT SATURDAY
ON THE FOURTEENTH AND AGAIN WE
WON'T BE MEETING IN JULY AND
AUGUST SO YOU PROBABLY WON'T
HEAR ME AGAIN UNTIL SEPTEMBER.
SO WE CONTINUE TO REVIEW
CITIZENS COMPLAINTS.
OF COURSE WE ARE HAPPY TO
REPORT WE DON'T HAVE A LOT
COMING IN AT THIS TIME.
PEOPLE HAVE ASKED THE COMMUNITY
CAME TO US AND SAID THEY WERE
THEY WANTED THE THE DRIVING
EQUALITY ORDINANCE AND NOW
THERE'S ALSO A POLICY WHERE IF
POLICE STOP A PERSON WE HAD WE
HAD SEVERAL COMMUNITY MEMBERS
COME AND SAY WHY ARE THE POLICE
TO STOP US AND SAY GIVE ME YOUR
LICENSE AND REGISTRATION AND SO
CHIEF ANDERSON HAS INSTITUTED A
POLICY THAT SAYS WHEN YOU'RE
STOPPED IN A TRAFFIC STOP THE
OFFICER IS TO GIVE YOU HIS NAME
AND THE REASON WHY HE STOPPED
YOU AND PEOPLE SAY WELL HOW ARE
YOU GOING TO ENFORCE THIS?
THE ONLY WAY WE CAN ENFORCE IS
FOR CITIZENS TO LET US KNOW.
SO HOPEFULLY WE'RE HAPPY NOT TO
GET ANY COMPLAINTS BUT I THINK
EVERYONE KNOWS WHAT IS SUPPOSED
TO HAPPEN AND WE ARE COUNTING
ON THAT TO HAPPEN WITH OUR
POLICE DEPARTMENT IF THERE ARE
NO FURTHER QUESTIONS, THERE ARE
NO QUESTIONS.
THAT IS ALL I HAVE FOR THIS
EVENING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW HAVE THE A PROCLAMATION
CELEBRATING A TWO ZERO WEEK DR.
STULTZ
, GOOD TO SEE YOU.
>> GOOD TO SEE YOU.
ALSO AS FAR AS FOLKS KNOW, WE
DO A LOT OF DIFFERENT THINGS AT
THE AT THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
WE DO A LOT OF THINGS WITH WITH
THE IN OUR COMMUNITY BUT VERY
FEW OF THE THINGS THAT WE DO AS
A MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION TOUCH
AND ENGAGE AS MANY FOLKS AS AS
A TWO ZERO AS OUR EFFORT TO
ACCOMPLISH COMMUNITY WIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY BY TWENTY.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT DEFINES
THE WORK THAT WE DO HERE IN THE
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION.
IT INFUSES THE WORK THAT SO
MANY OF OUR MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY DO AS WELL.
AND IT IS YOU KNOW, IN KEEPING
WITH THE THE EIGHT TO ZERO A
WEEK THAT THERE'LL BE ALL SORTS
OF DIFFERENT EVENTS WITH DR.
STULTZ WHEN I'LL LIKELY TELL
YOU ABOUT.
BUT IN ANY EVENT IT IS JUST MY
GREAT PLEASURE TO PROCLAIM THIS
TO BE A TWO ZERO WEEK AND TO
PRESENT A PROCLAMATION WHICH
I'LL NOT READ ALL THROUGH BUT
BASICALLY SAYS EIGHT TO ZERO IS
SUPER GOOD.
OUR GOAL OUR GOAL TO ACCOMPLISH
COMMUNITY WIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY IS
FOUNDATIONAL AND WE AS A
COMMUNITY ARE EXCITED TO DO IT.
>> DR. STULTZ SCHEINFELD WELL
THANK YOU SO MUCH MAYOR TAYLOR
AND MEMBERS OF COUNCIL AND MOST
IMPORTANTLY THE COMMUNITY
BECAUSE THIS IS OUR PLAN, OUR
GOAL, OUR ACTION TO BE
CARBON NEUTRAL AND A JUST AND
EQUITABLE WAY BY TWENTY, THIRTY
AND FIVE YEARS AGO TODAY
ACTUALLY IN THE WEE HOURS
OF THE MORNING COUNCIL
UNANIMOUSLY ADOPTED THIS PLAN
AND SO THIS WEEK IS A TWO ZERO
WEEK WE ARE CELEBRATING WE HAVE
TWENTY FIVE MORE EVENTS GOING
ON.
SO IF YOU MISSED US YESTERDAY,
DON'T START DON'T FORGET IT'S
FINE.
JOIN US IN THE COMMUNITY.
EVERYTHING FROM WARD PARTIES
WITH YOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS WILL
BE OUT IN THE COMMUNITY TO
TRIVIA TO BOARD GAMES TO LOTS
OF FUN, DIFFERENT WAYS TO
ENGAGE WITH THE COLLABORATORS
TO MAKE THIS POSSIBLE.
SO I JUST WANT TO GIVE
GRATITUDE BACK TO THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY FOR SAYING
SUSTAINABILITY IS A VALUE WE
HOLD AND NOT JUST SAYING THAT
SHOWING UP DAY AFTER DAY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND NOW I HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF EFFECTING PROCLAMATION WITH
RESPECT TO PRIDE MONTH I KNOW
WE HAVE SOME FOLKS COME ON THE
WELCOME WELCOME.
AND SO JUNE IS PRIDE MONTH AND
WHILE WE HAVE IN ANN ARBOR THE
PRIDE MONTH FESTIVITIES EXTEND
ALL THE WAY FROM JUNE INCLUDING
AUGUST, WE NEVERTHELESS HAD THE
PLEASURE OF DECLARING LGBTQ
PLUS PRIDE HERE FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AT THE AT THE
TABLE AND IN OUR COMMUNITY THE
DRIVE FOR FOR TO HONOR THE
MEMBERS OF OUR LGBTQ PLUS
COMMUNITY IN ANN ARBOR AND
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY IS
FOUNDATIONAL TO THE WORK THAT
WE DO HERE AT THE CITY
OF BANABA.
THE CITY OF BANABA WAS FOUNDED
ON PLURALISM OR FOUNDED
ENGAGEMENT OR FOUNDED UPON THE
RECOGNITION THAT ALL PEOPLES
COMPRISE OUR COMMUNITY AND WE
ARE JUST SO GRATEFUL AND TO
HAVE A STRONG LGBT PLUS HISTORY
HERE IN THE CITY DATING ALL THE
WAY BACK TO THE THE ELECTION
OF CATHY JENK AND HER
PREDECESSORS TO AT THIS AT THIS
TABLE AND WE HAVE IN OUR
LIFETIME IN OUR LIFETIME WE
HAVE SEEN GREAT STRIDES WITH
RESPECT THE RECOGNITION OF FULL
AND EQUAL RIGHTS.
>> WE HAVE ALSO OVER THE COURSE
THAT TIME AND CERTAINLY
RECENTLY SEEN RETRENCHMENT AND
SEEN HOSTILITY AND AN ATTACK.
IT IS PART OF OUR EFFORT AT THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR WHEN WE
DECLARE PRIDE MONTH TO DECLARE
OUR SOLIDARITY WITH MEMBERS
OF THE LGBTQ COMMUNITY, LET
THEM KNOW THAT THEY ARE THAT
THEY ARE US THAT WE ARE THEY
ARE INEXTRICABLY PART OF US AND
THAT WE WOULD NOT BE THE SAME
AWESOME COMMUNITY WITHOUT THEIR
THEIR MEMBERSHIP AND
PARTICIPATION.
AND SO I DO WANT TO JUST READ A
LITTLE BIT HERE BECAUSE THE
FOLKS HERE ARE FROM FROM THE
NEUTRAL ZONE AND WHEREAS YOU
KNOW, WE RECOGNIZE THE
TRANSFORMATIVE YOUTH LED WORK
THAT THE NEUTRAL ZONE MAKES
POSSIBLE INCLUDING WHERE LGBT
PLUS YOUTH IN OUR COMMUNITY CAN
EMBRACE THEIR POWER TO ADVANCE
SOCIAL JUSTICE AND SUPPORT ONE
ANOTHER FINDING STRENGTH,
CREATIVITY AND RESILIENCE TO
LIVE AS WHO THEY ARE.
THEREFORE WE DECLARE PRIDE AND
IT COULDN'T BE MORE PROUD TO
HAVE YOU HERE.
SO THANKS FOR CAUCUS.
HI, I'M UNIVER.
MY PRONOUNS ARE THEY THEM AND I
AM A RISING JUNIOR AT COMMUNITY
HIGH SCHOOL.
I'M ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AT THE NEUTRAL ZONE AND I AM
ALSO THE LEAD OF CONSENT
MATTERS A PROGRAM THAT TALKS
ABOUT AND UPLIFTS CONSENT AT
THE NEUTRAL ZONE.
MY NAME IS AIDEN.
I USE HIM PRONOUNS PRONOUNS.
I'M AN INCOMING SENIOR AT
WASHTENAW TECHNICAL MIDDLE
COLLEGE.
I'M A BOARD MEMBER HERE AT
NEUTRAL ZONE AND I'M ALSO RIGHT
YOUTHS YOUTH FACILITATOR RIDE
YOUTH IS OUR CUIRASS ACTIVISM
GROUP HERE AT NEUTRAL ZONE WE
WORK ON TRYING TO MAKE SURE
THERE'S A SAFE SPACE FOR
TEENS.
>> ANN ARBOR GENERAL
APPRECIATION THANK YOU FOR
GIVING US THIS OPPORTUNITY TO
TALK TO YOU AND THANK YOU TO
FOR CONTINUING TO SUPPORT
COMMUNITIES IN ANN ARBOR AND
ESPECIALLY THE TEENS.
>> THE NEUTRAL ZONE HAS BEEN AN
INCREDIBLY VALUABLE SPACE TO
HAVE AS A TEEN IT TRULY HAS
PROVIDED A SAFE SPACE FOR NOT
ONLY ME BUT FOR MANY OTHER
TEENS OF ALL IDENTITIES AND
REALLY NORMALIZES THESE
IDENTITIES.
THERE ABSOLUTELY SHOULD BE MORE
SPACES LIKE THE NEUTRAL ZONE SO
THAT ANY TEAM CAN FEEL THE
SUPPORT AND BE GIVEN THESE
OPPORTUNITIES NO MATTER THEIR
IDENTITY.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
ARE WORKING ON NEUTRAL ZONE IS
THE RAINBOW RESISTANCE PROJECT
.
IT IS THREE PHASES OF A PROJECT
TO HELP TEAMS BE MORE RESISTANT
TO STUFF THAT IS HAPPENING IN
OUR COMMUNITIES.
SO OUR FIRST ONE IS MENTAL
HEALTH AND VISIBILITY SO TEENS
KNOW THAT THEY ARE NOT ALONE IN
WHATEVER SITUATIONS THEY ARE IN
.
OUR SECOND ONE IS PRESENTATIONS
FOR SCHOOL ADMINS TO INFORM
THEM ON WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH
TEENS IN OUR COMMUNITY AND HOW
THEY CAN BE A HELP TO THEM AND
OUR THIRD ONE IS QUERE FROM
MAKING IT BIGGER AND BETTER AND
MORE ACCESSIBLE TO MORE TEENS
AND THE COMMUNITY SPECIAL THANK
YOU FOR COMMUNITY FOUNDATION
OF SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN FOR
LETTING US DO THIS.
IT IS SO EXTREMELY IMPORTANT TO
BE ABLE TO RELY ON OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND TO BE
ABLE TO HAVE PEOPLE ALL OVER
COME IN AND SUPPORT THE WORK
FOR OUR MOST VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING US
AND IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
YOU CAN ASK THEN YOU FEEL SAFE
IN THE BACK AND YOU CAN SEE OUR
WEBSITE.
I KNOW YOU GUYS
AND NOW WE HAVE
THE RADIATOR DINNER LOCAL
HISTORY AWARDS WITH RESPECT TO
SCARLET MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENTS
GOT CHRIS CROCKET AROUND HERE
SOMEWHERE.
>> EXCELLENT.
AND JEFF KEVIN , BEFORE TURNING
THE MIC OVER, I JUST WANT TO
SAY VERY BRIEFLY THAT MISS
CROCKET WILL DESCRIBE THE GREAT
GOOD THINGS DONE IN CONNECTION
WITH THE GREAT LOCAL HISTORY
AWARD.
BUT FOR MY PART AND TRULY I CAN
I THINK I CAN SAY WITHOUT FEAR
OF CONTRADICTION ON THE PART
THE COUNCIL WE ARE JUST SO
EXCITED TO HAVE THIS THIS
ONGOING THIS ONGOING AWARD AND
THANKING YOU SO MUCH FOR IT.
YOU'RE WELCOME AND THANK YOU SO
FOR PARTICIPATING AND LEAVING
IT YET AGAIN AND CRUCIALLY AND
IMPORTANTLY, THANKS TO TO ALL
THE CAREGIVERS AND STUDENTS WHO
HAVE MADE AN EFFORT TO LEARN
ABOUT OUR AMAZING LOCAL HISTORY
AND TO GRASP AND BE A PART
OF IT.
>> SO JUST THANK YOU ALL SO
VERY MUCH.
WELL, SOME OF YOU REMEMBER
RADIATOR BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE
DON'T AND SOMEONE ASKED ME
EARLIER WHO IS RIGHT DINNER AND
I SAID WELL HE WAS A BRILLIANT
SCHOLAR.
HE WAS A COMPELLING SPEAKER.
HE WAS A PARTY ANIMAL
.
HE LOVED HISTORY, HAD A PHD IN
HISTORY AND HE WROTE HIS PHD
THESIS DISSERTATION ABOUT LACEY
DOUGLAS WHO IS A FIERY PREACHER
HERE IN ANN ARBOR WHO
DENIGRATED GERMANS BECAUSE HE
DIDN'T LIKE GERMANS SO RAY RAY
WAS A LIFELONG LEARNER EVEN
UNTIL WELL INTO HIS 90S HE WAS
STILL WORKING ON HIS SPANISH
ALL THE TIME FOR TRIPS HE LOVED
TO TAKE TO SPANISH SPEAKING
COMPANIES AND FOR THE PAST TWO
YEARS WE'VE HAD MIDDLE
SCHOOLERS WHO HAVE BEEN
SUBMITTING PROJECTS AND
SPECIFICALLY MIDDLE SCHOOLERS
FROM SCARLET AND THEY'RE REALLY
IMPRESSIVE THIS YEAR ALL OF THE
PROJECTS ARE FROM SIXTH GRADERS
AND THEY SUBMITTED THEIR
PROJECTS WITH COVER LETTERS AND
DESCRIPTIONS AND THEY WERE ALL
COMPUTERIZED AND THEY HAD
BIBLIOGRAPHIES AND I THOUGHT I
WASN'T DOING THAT WHEN I WAS 11
YEARS OLD.
SO THESE ARE REALLY OUTSTANDING
YOUNG PEOPLE AND I'M GOING TO
TURN OVER THE MIC NOW TO JEFF
CABOT, THEIR TEACHER WHO WILL
ANNOUNCE THE NAMES OF THE
WINNERS AND THEN THEY'RE GOING
TO GET THEIR PICTURE WITH THE
MAYOR.
THANK YOU, CHRIS.
WE ASK OUR SIXTH GRADERS TO DO
RESEARCH PROJECTS AND WE
ENCOURAGE THEM TO CHOOSE LOCAL
HISTORY CONNECTIONS.
WE SAID, YOU KNOW, IF YOU
CHOOSE SOMETHING LOCAL WILL
ENTER YOU IN THE RADIATOR
CONTEST AND SEE WHAT WE CAN DO
WITH OUR SEVENTH GRADERS.
WE HAVE A NUMBER OF HERE AS
WELL.
THEY DO AN ACTION PROJECT AND
WE ENCOURAGE THEM TO HAVE A
LOCAL CONNECTION.
AND AGAIN, IF THEY DO THAT AND
WANT TO ENTER THIS CONTEST WE
ASKED THEM AND HERE THEY ARE.
SO WE HAVE A LOT OF A LOT
OF STUDENTS TO INTRODUCE.
I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE THEIR
NAMES ONE BY ONE.
AS I SAY, YOUR NAME YOU'RE
GOING TO FIND YOUR WAY UP FRONT
HERE AND WE DECIDED YOU'RE
GOING TO FACE THE COUNCIL AS
YOU COME UP SROUR BEHIND US OR
IN FRONT OF WAS GOING TO FILL
THE SPACE.
WELL, WE'RE GOING TO BEGIN TO
FILL THIS WE'RE GOING TO FILL
THE SPACE.
SO I'M GOING TO NAME A
STUDENT'S NAME AND I WILL GIVE
A BRIEF SYNOPSIS OF WHAT THE
PROJECT WAS FIVE, SIX, SEVEN
WORDS IF WE WERE TO CLAP AFTER
EACH PERSON THAT'S GOING TO
REALLY STRETCH THINGS OUT SO
LET'S WAIT TILL EVERYBODY'S UP
HERE AND THEN WE CAN GIVE THE
STUDENTS A ROUND OF APPLAUSE.
I'M GOING TO START WITH ABBY
WOLFE.
ABBY DID A PROJECT ON THE
HISTORY OF SCARLET MIDDLE
SCHOOL.
GEORGIE BUSSY GEORGE, YOU DID A
PROJECT ON THE HISTORY
OF MITCHELL ELEMENTARY AND
MIDDLE SCHOOL.
COME ON MAX WILSON MAX'S
PROJECT WAS ON THE EFFECTS
OF THE HOLOCAUST IN ANN ARBOR
AND PEOPLE FROM IN OUR BY THE
PEOPLE AT HOME.
OH RIGHT.
SORRY I DON'T GET MAX WILSON'S
PROJECT WAS ON THE EFFECTS
OF THE HOLOCAUST IN AND AROUND
ANN ARBOR SAFWAN HASSAN STUFF
JUANAS TOPIC WAS FINANCIAL
PROBLEMS IN ANN ARBOR WE HAVE A
GROUP OF SIX SEVENTH GRADERS
WHO RECOGNIZE THAT THERE IS NO
WIKIPEDIA PAGE FOR SCARLET
MIDDLE SCHOOL.
THEY UNDERTOOK THAT CHALLENGE
THEY SUCCESSFULLY COLLECTED ALL
THEY NEED AND CATEGORIZED IT
AND ARE IN THE PROCESS
OF TRYING TO GET UP ON
WIKIPEDIA.
BUT THERE SOME COMMUNICATION
CHALLENGES WITH THE GREATER
WIKIPEDIA THOSE STUDENTS ARE
SAYDA ANGLING VICTORIA CHILD
VZQUEZ YOUR SAHANA DALLARA
TUNE GENEVIEVE JANE AND IS
EYKAMP HAZEL FREDRIKSSON IS NOT
WITH US TONIGHT.
SHE DID PROJECT ON THE HISTORY
OF BUILDINGS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
JOSHUA BRISCOE AND ABRAMS'
ZACHARY DID A PROJECT ON THE
HISTORY OF ANN ARBOR
JUNE
GRAVES AND LAUREN SHAW DID A
RESEARCH PROJECT ON THE
THOMPSON AND COMPANY RESTAURANT
IN DEPOT TOWN WHICH LED TO THE
THOMPSON AND COMPANY BUILDING
HISTORY AND DEPOT TOM LAILAH
PAUL DID A PROJECT ON THE HURON
VALLEY HUMANE SOCIETY AND ITS
HISTORY AND SERVICES.
SARAH BURGMANN COMBINED HER
HOBBY OF CROCHET WITH HER
INTEREST IN LOCAL HISTORY AND
EXPLORED FOUR OR FIVE ICONIC
PLACES IN ANN ARBOR AND LEFT
LITTLE CROCHET THINGS THERE FOR
PEOPLE TO SEE AND PERHAPS PICK
UP AND GAVE THE MAYOR A
CROCHETED PIECE THIS EVENING
CAMELA HARRIS COMEDIA DID A
PROJECT ON ANN ARBOR
RESTAURANTS SIERRA LAWLER AND
LLIANA MADDIE'S.
THEIR PROJECT WAS ON THE U OF M
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL PROGRAM AND
ITS HISTORY ZELAND GOERING'S
ZALAN CHOSE TO TELL HIS
FAMILY'S IMMIGRATION STORY FROM
ITS AS FAR BACK AS HE COULD
TAKE IT UNTIL THE VARIOUS
BRANCHES CAME TOGETHER IN ANN
ARBOR, BARBASOL MOHAMMED DID A
RESEARCH PROJECT ON THE HISTORY
OF SCARLET MIDDLE SCHOOL DAYTON
NANCE DID A RESEARCH PAPER ON
THE HISTORY OF ANN ARBOR AIDIN
CHEF ADAN'S TOPIC WAS
PITTSFIELD VILLAGE IN THE
HISTORY OF PITTSFIELD VILLAGE
HEDAYA HARPER.
>> HER TOPIC WAS THE HISTORY
THE SCARLET MITCHELL WOODS
RYLEY BOLAOS FOCUSED ON THE
HISTORY OF SCARLET MIDDLE
SCHOOL AND EZEKIAL MORE.
>> EZEKIEL'S TOPIC WAS ANN
ARBOR AND YPSILANTI HISTORICAL
MUSIC PAST AND I THINK THAT'S
TWENTY SIX STUDENTS IN FRONT
OF ME RIGHT NOW
.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO BRING THE
GROUP TOGETHER SO WE COULD GET
A PHOTOGRAPH AND I'M GOING TO
LET THE MAYOR TAKE CHARGE
OF THE STUDENTS AND TELL HIM
YEAH, I'LL TAKE IT IN THERE AND
YEAH YEAH
SECOURS HEY JAY
.
OH YEAH.
JUST
ALL RIGHT
.
THANK YOU.
IF ANY PARENT THINKS THEY GOT
THE WHOLE GROUP YOU CAN EMAIL
OR GET FIRED BY
HIGH SCHOOL
AND
NOW WE ARE HISTORY DOESN'T STOP
AND SO YOU KNOW IN ADDITION TO
HAVING LEARNED A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT THAT IN OUR HISTORY
IS EVERYTHING FROM SCARLET
MIDDLE SCHOOL.
WE ALSO HAVE A GREAT HISTORY IN
OUR BUILT ENVIRONMENT AND SO IT
IS OUR ANNUAL OPPORTUNITY TO
AWARD AND RECOGNIZE FOLKS WHO
PAY PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO
HISTORIC STRUCTURES, ENTITIES
THAT A PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO
HISTORIC DISTRICT HISTORIC
STRUCTURES.
AND SO I TURN OVER THE
MICROPHONE TO SUSAN WIMER
AND
MISS THATCHER.
THAT'S A REALLY HARD ACT TO
FOLLOW.
SO YOU'RE STANDING THERE I
GUESS.
CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
OH, GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SUSAN WEINBERG.
I'M THE CHAIR OF THE AWARDS
COMMITTEE OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
I WANT TO THANK THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL FOR AGAIN ALLOWING
US TO PRESENT AWARDS FOR
HISTORIC PRESERVATION.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO THANK THE
AWARDS COMMITTEE FOR AN RIGHT
ELLEN RAMSBURG, CATHY FALKNER,
TOM STALBERG, GRACE SHACKMAN.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO THANK OUR
STAFF JILL THATCHER AND
MARYANNA MILLION CORCORAN AND A
SPECIAL THANK YOU TO PATRICIA
AUSTIN WHO SERVED ON THIS
COMMITTEE FOR PROBABLY OVER
TWENTY FIVE YEARS AND IS NOW
STEPPING DOWN OUR HISTORIC
BUILDINGS AROUND US EVERYWHERE
WE LOOK AND THEY PROVIDE THE
LINK BETWEEN OUR PAST AND OUR
PRESENT.
OUR WINNERS TONIGHT SHOW US
THEIR PRIDE PLACE WHICH THEY
SHARE WITH THE COMMUNITY EVERY
DAY WE THANK THEM FOR DOING
THEIR WORK, CARING FOR THEIR
PROPERTIES AND MAKING ANN ARBOR
A WONDERFUL PLACE TO LIVE AND
WORK TONIGHT WE ARE GIVING
AWARDS FOR PRESERVATION,
REHABILITATION AND ANNIVERSARY
AWARDS IN THE INTEREST OF TIME
THERE WILL BE NO APPLAUSE UNTIL
THE END OF THE PRESENTATION.
THE WINNERS WILL THEN STAND AND
WE CAN APPLAUD ALTHOUGH MAYBE
WE COULD HAVE A PICTURE WITH
THE MAYOR TOO AND FIND THEIR
CERTIFICATES ARE OUT IN THE
HALL.
WE'RE STILL OH YOU'RE DOING IT
FROM BETTER.
OH OK.
PRESERVATION AWARDS ARE GIVEN
IN RECOGNITION SUPERIOR
MAINTENANCE OF A SIGNIFICANT
PROPERTY TO PRESERVE ITS
ESSENTIAL HISTORIC CULTURAL OR
ARCHITECTURAL VALUE
FOR TEN
YEARS OR MORE OUR FIRST AWARD
GOES TO WALTER HOGAN AND WENDY
WOODWORTH FOR THEIR
PRESERVATION OF 520 NORTH STATE
IS TO THE REVIVAL HOUSE WAS
BUILT IN NINETEEN THIRTY TWO
FIRST OCCUPIED BY DEAN HOBART,
AN ASSISTANT PROFESSOR AT U
OF THEM AND HIS WIFE ARLETTA.
IT BECAME A RENTAL IN THE
NINETEEN FIFTIES BUT IT HAS
BEEN OWNER OCCUPIED SINCE THE
NINETEEN EIGHTIES.
IT'S TOO STEEP GABLES AND HALF
TIMBER DESIGNS ARE CLASSIC
FEATURES OF THE TUDOR STYLE.
THERE'S ALSO GARAGE AND THE
SAME STYLE.
WENDY AND WALTER HAVE LIVED
HERE FOR THIRTY FIVE YEARS AND
HAVE MAINTAINED IT IN BEAUTIFUL
CONDITION.
IT IS LOCATED IN THE OLD FOURTH
WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THANK WENDY AND WALTER OUR
SECOND AWARD GOES TO THE CITY
VANOVER PARKS AND RECREATION
DEPARTMENTS FOR THEIR
PRESERVATION OF THE HURON HILLS
GOLF COURSE CLUBHOUSE.
THE COURSE IS A BEAUTIFUL PAR
SIXTY SEVEN EIGHTEEN HOLE
COURSE LOCATED ALONG KIERON
PARKWAY ADJACENT AGALLOCH PARK
ESTABLISHED IN NINETEEN TWENTY
TWO.
ITS HISTORIC COURSE IS NOTED
FOR ITS DRAMATIC ELEVATION
CHANGES AND VIEWS OF THE HERE
ON RIVER.
THE CURRENT CLUBHOUSE WAS BUILT
IN NINETEEN SIXTY TWO IN A
MODERN STYLE AND DESIGNED BY
THE LOCAL FIRM OF KATHERINE
LOWRY MCMEEL AND MILEN
ASSOCIATES AND IT COSTS THIRTY
SEVEN THOUSAND DOLLARS EQUIPPED
THE 63 YEAR OLD CLUBHOUSE AT
SIMPLE DESIGN THAT ROOFS THAT
FLOAT UNDULATE IN A STYLE
RESEMBLING AN ASIAN PAGODA ADDS
TO THE COURSE IS CHARM.
>> THANK YOU PARKS AND REC OK
THE NEXT AWARD IS TO THE PHI
DELTA PHI FRATERNITY FOR THEIR
PRESERVATION FIVE 02 E MADISON
IN THE SHADOW OF SOUTH QUAD.
THE GEORGIAN STYLE BUILDING WAS
BUILT FOR THEM IN 1916 AND IT
IS ONE OF A HANDFUL
OF FRATERNITIES STILL OCCUPYING
THEIR ORIGINAL BUILDING.
PHI DELTA PHI WAS FOUNDED IN
ANN ARBOR IN 1869 AND IS THE
OLDEST LEGAL FRATERNITY IN THE
COUNTRY.
TWO PHOTOS TAKEN IN 1919 BY
LOCAL PHOTOGRAPHER GEORGE SWAIN
SHOW BOTH THE EXTERIOR YOU'RE
IN THE INTERIOR AND THEN ONLY
MINOR CHANGES HAVE OCCURRED
SINCE THEY RECEIVED A RIB
REHABILITATION AWARD IN TULSA
NINE AND THEY'RE NOW BEING
PRESENTED WITH A PRESERVATION
AWARD FOR MAINTAINING THEIR
CLUBHOUSE IN A BEAUTIFUL
MANNER.
THANK YOU, KENT.
IN FID WHICH IS WHAT THEY CALL
THEMSELVES NEXT IS AN AWARD TO
MORTON AND RYAN BROWN FOR THEIR
PRESERVATION OF TEN TWENTY
THREE SOUTH FOREST.
IT IS IN THE ARTS AND CRAFTS
STYLE AND AS A STUCCOED HOUSE
WITH TRACES OF THE TUDOR IN THE
HALF TIMBERING IN THE GABLE.
IT WAS BUILT IN 1916 AND WAS
THE HOME OF ROLLAN DRAK, A
DENTIST WHO ALSO PERFORMED WITH
A MUSICAL GROUP CALLED TEKMIRA
MEGHAN, A POPULAR BAND IN THE
1880 EIGHTIES TO NINETEEN
EIGHTY FIVE IN 1930 NAME BECAME
NINE IT BECAME THE HOME OF IMEL
LAUNCH.
THE DIRECTOR OF THE COLLEGE
OF ARCHITECTURE AT U OF M WHEN
HIS HOME ON CHURCH STREET WAS
DEMOLISHED TO MAKE WAY FOR EAST
QUOD LARGE HALL IS NAMED AFTER
HIM.
LORD LIVED IN THE HOUSE UNTIL
HE DIED IN 1963.
A BIG THANK YOU TO THE BROWN
FAMILY.
NEXT WE GO TO REHABILITATE
AWARDS WHICH ARE PRESENTED TO
PROJECTS THAT HAVE
SUBSTANTIALLY RETURNED OUR
PROPERTY TO ITS HISTORIC
CONDITION.
FIRST IS AN AWARD TO LARS BJORN
AND MYSELF MOI FOR THE
RESTORATION OF THE EXTERIOR
OF THE RENTAL PROPERTY.
I DID NOT NOMINATE MYSELF BY
THE WAY ONCE OVER A PERIOD
OF FIVE YEARS THEY REMOVED THE
ASBESTOS SIDING.
HERE'S A BEFORE AND AFTER UP
THERE BY THE WAY.
IT'S QUITE SHOCKING.
WE REMOVED REPAIRED WOOD SIDING
AND PAINTED IT IN TRUE VICTORY
COLORS.
MANY THINGS GO TO PAINTER MIKE
BROWN AND HIS CREW FROM SALEEN.
THEY DIDN'T USE FIFTY SHADES
OF GRAY BUT THEY USED FIVE THIS
ELABORATE QUEEN ANNE STYLE
HOUSE WAS BUILT IN 1894 FOR
ARTHUR BROWN, A LOCAL ATTORNEY,
WASHTENAW COUNTY CLERK,
SECRETARY TREASURER OF THE
WASHINGTON ABSTRACT COMPANY.
IT HAS ALL THE FEATURES QUEEN
AND INCLUDING ELABORATE DESIGNS
AROUND THE WINDOWS AND THE
GABLE AND EVEN A SLEEPING
PORCH.
THE HOUSE WAS CONVERTED TO
APARTMENTS IN THE NINETEEN
FORTIES.
IT IS LOCATED IN THE OLD FOURTH
WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THANK YOU TO MY HUSBAND AND
MYSELF.
OK NEXT WE HAVE AN AWARD GOING
TO PETER EISLER AND BETSY
WILLIAMS FOR THEIR RESTORATION
OF THE EXTERIOR THREE THREE
FIVE EAST CATHERINE THEY
REMOVED INAPPROPRIATE ALUMINUM
SIDING TO REVEAL THE CLAPBOARD
BENEATH AND IT AND THEY HAD
CUSTOM WOOD STORM WINDOWS MADE
FOR THE HOUSE.
THE HOUSE WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY SEVEN.
ITS FIRST OCCUPANT WAS JAY
ROYAL SAGE, A MAIL CARRIER.
HIS WIFE MAUD, THEIR DAUGHTER
AND MOD'S PARENTS PRETTY BLACK
DOWN THERE.
IT WAS THE HOME OF ELMER
WURSTER AND HIS WIFE FOR FORTY
YEARS AND PETER AND BETSY
BOUGHT IT FROM THEM.
IT IS ALSO LOCATED IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THANK YOU BETSY AND PETER.
OK, THE NEXT AWARD GOES TO
DAVID MICHENER AND WILL
STRICKLAND FOR THEIR HOME AT
SIXTEEN TWENTY TWO PONTIAC
TERELL A GLORIOUS EXPLOSION
OF COLOR AS YOU DRIVE OUT
OF TOWN ALONG ITS BEAUTIFUL
ROAD.
THE HOUSE WAS BUILT IN 1890 FOR
AND BY AUGUST HALF ITS
OCCUPATION.
CARPENTER EXPLAINS THE
ELABORATE DETAILING AND SUCH A
SMALL HOUSE.
HE DIED IN 1899 BUT THE HOUSE
REMAINED IN HIS FAMILY UNTIL
1930.
THIS ELABORATE QUEEN AND
COTTAGE DISPLAYS DISPLAYS
FEATURES OF THE REVIVAL STYLES
OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
INCLUDING GOTHIC REVIVAL WITH
ITS STEEPLY PITCHED ROOF LINES
POINTED VERTICAL SIDING AND
INTRICATELY CARVED ORNAMENTAL
TRUSSES AND THE STICK STYLE
WITH ITS EASTLACK INSPIRED
WINDOW TRIM.
IT ALSO HAS SUNBURST WITH A
POPULAR FEATURE OF THE QUEEN
AND STYLE THE CURRENT OWNERS
HAVE LIVED HERE SINCE NINETEEN
NINETY ONE AND HAVE DONE A
MAGNIFICENT JOB IN RESTORING
THE WOODWORK AND SIDING.
CHECK OUT THE GARDEN TO
MICHENER WORKS FOR THE MATTHAI
BOTANICAL GARDENS AND IT SHOWS
THANK YOU DAVID AND WILL AND
THE NEXT AWARD GOES TO ROBERT
RUBIN FOR REHABBING HIS
PROPERTY AT THREE TWENTY ONE E
AND STREET WHICH IS RIGHT
ACROSS THE STREET THAT IS IN
THE OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
THIS VERNACULAR GREEK REVIVAL
HOUSE WAS BUILT BY WIDOW
SILVINA COWL'S IN 1878.
SHE AND HER HUSBAND MARTIN
COWL'S A PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
LIVED IN LOWERTOWN AND WERE
EARLY PIONEERS FROM UPSTATE NEW
YORK WHO CAME TO ANN ARBOR IN
THE 30S.
HE WAS THE FIRST PHYSICIAN TO
PRACTICE IN ANN ARBOR.
SHE DIED IN 1891 AND WILLED HER
HOUSE TO THE FIRST BAPTIST
CHURCH WHICH USED TO AS A
PARSONAGE UNTIL THE 1920S AFTER
WHICH IT WAS CONVERTED TO
APARTMENTS.
RUBIN REMOVED AN INAPPROPRIATE
CONCRETE STOOP AND REPLACED IT
WITH AN APPROPRIATE NINETEENTH
CENTURY DESIGN.
I'M SORRY YOU DON'T HAVE A
PHOTO OF THE INAPPROPRIATE
STOOP
.
WE WOULD ALSO LIKE TO RECOGNIZE
RUBEN'S GREAT PRESERVATION WORK
AND HIS OTHER PROPERTIES IN THE
OLD FOURTH WARD.
THANK YOU BOB.
>> NEXT AWARD GOES TO MILLIKEN
REALTY COMPANY FOR THEIR WORK
AT ONE HUNDRED HERE ON VIEW
BOULEVARD, THE BUILDER OF THIS
WONDERFUL GOTHIC BRICK GOTHIC
REVIVAL HOUSE NOW USED AS
OFFICE SPACE IS UNKNOWN.
THE PORCH WAS RECENTLY REPAIRED
AND REPAINTED THE DOUBLE GABLES
ON THE FRONT ELEVATION WITH
GINGERBREAD TRIM ARE UNUSUAL
FOR A NABIL.
WE WOULD ALSO LIKE TO GIVE A
SHOUT OUT TO BUILDINGS THAT ARE
OFF THE BEATEN TRACK AND THIS
IS A LOVELY ONE.
>> THANK YOU.
MILLIKEN REALTY COMPANY.
>> OH NOW WE HAVE A SPECIAL
MERIT AWARD GIVEN IN
RECOGNITION OF EXCEPTIONAL OR
UNUSUAL PROJECTS GROUPS,
LANDSCAPES AND PEOPLE.
THIS YEAR WE RECOGNIZE THE OLD
FOURTH WARD ASSOCIATE
ASSOCIATION WHICH WON THE
COMMUNITY AWARD LAST YEAR FROM
THE MICHIGAN HISTORIC
PRESERVATION NETWORK, A
STATEWIDE ORGANIZATION.
THE OLD FOURTH WARD ASSOCIATION
WAS ORGANIZED IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY FOUR AND HOLDS MEETINGS
SEVERAL TIMES A YEAR ON TOPICS
OF INTEREST TO THE COMMUNITY
INCLUDING PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
SIGNAGE, GARBAGE PARKING,
ZONING GARDENS AND MUCH MORE.
IT PUBLISHES A NEWSLETTER TWICE
A YEAR.
MUCH OF THE CREDIT GOES TO JEFF
AND CHRIS CROCKETT AND EARLIER
TO RAY DEBTOR NAMES YOU'VE
HEARD EARLIER TONIGHT WHO ARE
TIRELESS IN THEIR WORK FOR THE
ASSOCIATION LAST YEAR WAS
UNUSUALLY BUSY FOR THE
ASSOCIATION WITH ITS WORK FOR
THE BICENTENNIAL THEY DEVELOPED
A QUIZ WITH TWO HUNDRED
HISTORICAL QUESTIONS SET UP A
TIMELINE OF EVENTS FOR THE LAST
200 YEARS AND HELP ORGANIZE A
TWO HUNDRED BIRTHDAY PARTY AT
LIBERTY PLAZA.
THEY DID THIS ALL WHILE KEEPING
THEIR BEAUTIFUL QUEEN AND HOUSE
IN TIP TOP SHAPE.
WE TIP OUR HATS TO JEFF AND
CHRIS AND THANK THEM FOR THEIR
ENERGY AND COMMITMENT TO THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE ENTIRE
CITY OF WE HAVE FOUR
ANNIVERSARY AWARDS THIS YEAR
THAT'S A RECORD THE FIRST
ANNIVERSARY AWARD GOES TO
HELDIN MANOR AT TWENTY TWO
TWENTY WASHTENAW AVENUE WHICH
IS CELEBRATING ITS CENTENNIAL.
THIS TOO TO REVIVAL BUILDING
RESEMBLES AN ENGLISH COUNTRY
ESTATE BUT ACTUALLY HOLDS EIGHT
SIX ROOM CONDOS WHICH WERE
FORMERLY APARTMENTS WHEN IT WAS
BUILT IN NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE.
THESE APARTMENTS ARE THE
EPITOME OF URBAN LIVING WITH
LARGE ROOMS AIR CONDITIONING
AND EVEN MAID'S QUARTERS.
APARTMENT LIVING WAS JUST
BEGINNING TO APPEAL TO THE
WEALTHY AT THIS TIME PERIOD.
THE BUILDING WAS DESIGNED BY
DETROIT ARCHITECTURE FIRM
MCGRATH AND PAGE THE HAVE
TIMBERING ON THE FRONT FACADE
COMPLIMENTS THE SYMMETRICAL
STONE TUDOR ARCHES OTHER DESIGN
FEATURES INCLUDE A STEEPLY
PITCHED ROOF PUNCTUATED BY
CHIMNEYS AND GROUPS OF DOUBLE
HANG MULTIPLE WINDOWS SINCE IT
WAS AND IS A COLLABORATIVE
OWNER SHARE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THE GROUNDS THE EXTERIOR WATER
AND HEATING.
THEY RECEIVED A PRESERVATION
AWARD IN 1990 AND ARE NOW BEING
HONORED AT THEIR THEIR
CENTENNIAL GROUP HOMES
ASSOCIATION IS THEIR OFFICIAL
NAME.
>> THANK YOU GROUP HOMES AND
BUILDING FOLKS GET TO THE NEXT
PAGE
.
>> ANOTHER CENTENNIAL AWARD IS
GOING TO THE BIRDS PARK
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AT 14 14
WELLS THIS YEAR MARKS THE 100TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE OPENING
OF BYRNES PARK SCHOOL.
IT WAS BUILT AT THE WESTERN
EDGE OF BERN'S PARK WHICH
ITSELF GREW OUT OF THE FORMER
WASHINGTON COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS
AND RACETRACK AND THE OVAL
OF TREES THAT STILL REMAIN MARK
THE SITE OF THE RACETRACK.
BERN'S PARK IS NAMED AFTER
GEORGE BURNS, A PROFESSOR
OF BOTANY WHO WAS THE FIRST
COMMISSIONER THE ANN ARBOR
PARKS COMMISSION IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY FIVE THE SCHOOL IS
ORIGINALLY CALLED TAPAN SCHOOL
AND THE NAME WAS CHANGED IN
NINETEEN FIFTY ONE BECAUSE
ANOTHER TAPPIN SCHOOL WAS
OPENED ON STADION BOULEVARD HMT
DO STUFF LIKE THAT.
THE BUILDING IS IN A COLONIAL'S
STYLE WITH A NOD TO
INDEPENDENCE HALL IN
PHILADELPHIA AND THE ARCHITECTS
BATES AND GAMBOL OF TOLEDO THE
COMMUNITY CELEBRATED SCHOOL
CENTENNIAL IN APRIL WITH A
1920S JAZZ BAND FROM COMMUNITY
HIGH A SCALE MODEL OF THE
SCHOOL RENDERED AS A CAKE AND A
PRESENTATION OF A BRONZE
CENTENNIAL BELL WHICH
ORIGINALLY GRACED A 19TH
CENTURY LOGGING LOCOMOTIVE.
THIS IS A QUOTE IN AN AGE WHEN
SO MUCH IS DIGITAL AND
EPHEMERAL WE WANTED TO GIVE THE
SCHOOL AN ENDURING GIFT THAT
WILL RING FOR ANOTHER HUNDRED
YEARS, SAID JOHN, A PTO
VOLUNTEER WHO HELPED ORGANIZE
THE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.
QUIN EVANS ARCHITECTS WILL
BEGIN TO WORK ON A MAJOR
RENOVATION IN TWENTY TWENTY
SEVEN.
CONGRATS TO EVERYONE WHO WORKED
ON THIS.
NEXT WE HAVE ST. MARY'S STUDENT
CHAPEL AT THREE THREE ONE
THOMPSON STREET.
THIS YEAR THE CHAPEL CELEBRATES
100 YEARS IN ITS ART DECO
BUILDING DESIGNED BY U OF M
ARCHITECTURE PROFESSOR ALBERT
J.
RUSSO.
THIS UNUSUAL ROMAN CATHOLIC
CHURCH WAS DEDICATED IN
NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE TO SERVE
STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN DESPITE BEING
TRAINED IN FRANCE AND BEAUX
ARTS STYLE, RUSSO HAD A
MODERNIST STREAK THE SCULPTED
STONE CROSSES ON THE EXTERIOR
ARE A GOOD EXAMPLE OF THE ART
DECO STYLE.
THE THEME OF THE PARISH IS
CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION AS QUOTE
ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF FAITH
CELEBRATING OUR PAST, EMBRACING
OUR FUTURE.
WE ARE THE CHURCH ARE WELCOME
ALL BELONG UNQUOTE.
FOR MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED YEARS
SAINT MARY'S HAS BEEN A VITAL
SPIRITUAL HOME FOR CATHOLICS AT
U OF M AND THROUGHOUT THE AREA
AND HAS BEEN ESPECIALLY WELCOME
TO IMMIGRANTS AND THAT LGBTQ
COMMUNITY.
CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL OF THEM
.
WHAT AM I LOOKING AT NEXT?
>> WE HERE AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
IS CELEBRATING ITS ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY THIS YEAR.
THAT'S A SESQUICENTENNIAL.
THE NEXT ONE I DON'T KNOW UM
PLAYED A PIONEERING ROLE IN
DENTAL EDUCATION AS THE
COUNTRY'S FIRST PUBLIC
UNIVERSITY TO START THE SCHOOL
OF DENTISTRY FIRST CALL THE
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY IN
1875 IT BECAME A LEADER IN
TRANSFORMING DENTISTRY FROM A
CRAFT TO A PROFESSION.
SINCE THEN IT HAS GAINED GLOBAL
RECOGNITION FOR ITS MANY
CONTRIBUTIONS TO PUBLIC HEALTH
AND THE PROFESSION OF DENTISTRY
.
THE SCHOOL IS AT THE FOREFRONT
OF DENTAL EDUCATION.
YOU CAN EXPERIENCE YOURSELF BY
VISITING THE SINDA KUZE MUSEUM
ON THE GROUND FLOOR OF THE
DENTAL SCHOOL AND FLETCHER.
WE APPLAUD THE DENTAL SCHOOL
FOR ITS CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE
SCIENCE OF DENTISTRY AND TO THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AS WELL.
AND LAST BUT NOT LEAST THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL
SCHOOL IS CELEBRATING ITS ONE
SEVENTIETH YEAR WITH EVENTS
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
THE SCHOOL BEGAN IN 1850 IN A
GREEK REVIVAL BUILDING WITH
MASSIVE COLUMNS WHICH
CREATED THE FIRST MEDICAL CLASS
OF NINETY FIVE STUDENTS AND
FIVE FACULTY.
NO ONE COULD IMAGINE WHAT THEY
WERE EMBARKING ON IN ANN ARBOR
THEN A SMALL BACKWATER IN THE
HIGHER EDUCATION UNIVERSE.
THE CITY ITSELF WAS ONLY TWENTY
FIVE YEARS OLD WHEN THE MED
SCHOOL OPENED FROM THIS SINGLE
BUILDING WAS BORN A STATEWIDE
ACADEMIC HEALTH SYSTEM NOW
KNOWN AS MICHIGAN MEDICINE.
IT IS NOW ONE OF THE WORLD'S
MOST RESPECTED CENTERS
OF BIOMEDICAL EDUCATION
RESEARCH AND ADVANCED CLINICAL
TRAINING.
THAT'S ONE OF THE HIGHEST
RANKED HEALTH CARE SYSTEMS IN
THE COUNTRY.
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT MORE THE
SCHOOL WILL CELEBRATE IMPORTANT
EVENTS IN ITS HISTORY INCLUDING
THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE SOCK
VACCINATE POLIO VACCINE, THE
EARLY ADMISSION OF WOMEN TO A
MEDICAL SCHOOL AND THE FIRST TO
OPEN A TEACHING HOSPITAL IN THE
UNITED STATES IN AN EXHIBIT AT
THE SIMPSON MEMORIAL INSTITUTE,
AN OBSERVATORY WHICH IS
CELEBRATING ITS CENTENNIAL
DATING FROM NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE.
IT'S AN ALBERTON DESIGN
BUILDING AND WAS BUILT TO STUDY
BLOOD DISORDERS.
TODAY IT IS A MEDICAL HISTORY
CENTER.
MICHIGAN MEDICINE WILL ALSO
HAVE AN EXHIBIT AT THE
WASHINGTON COUNTY HISTORICAL
SOCIETY MUSEUM ON MAIN STREET
IN THE FALL ARTIFACTS, IMAGES
AND MAPS WILL BE ON DISPLAY.
CONGRATULATION TO THE MICHIGAN
MEDICINE FOR ALL ITS MANY YEARS
OF SUCCESS AND FOR PUTTING ANN
ARBOR ON THE MEDICAL RESEARCH
MAP AND NOW WITH EVERYONE WHO
IS A WINNER PLEASE STAND UP AND
GET APPLAUSE
.
CAN WE GET A PICTURE WITH YOU?
WE'RE GOING TO GET A PICTURE TO
THOSE KIDS THAT DON'T WE'RE AS
GOOD AS THOSE WHERE JOY LIKE
THEY WERE.
ALL RIGHT, MY DEAR JOE, CAN YOU
TAKE A PICTURE?
THANK YOU.
HEY,
ROBERT.
READY SAY LOCAL HISTORY.
THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR
FROM NOW
ON TO OUR
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN INSTANCES
WE'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
CLERK OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
JIMMIE RODGERS
.
HI, THANK YOU.
I'M JIMMIE RODGERS.
I AM A LONGTIME RESIDENT AND
I'M DEEPLY CONCERNED ABOUT
CLIMATE CHANGE.
I APPRECIATE THE TERRIFIC WORK
THE CITY IS DOING TO REACH OUR
EIGHT TWO ZERO GOALS AND I AM
SO GRATEFUL THAT WE HAVE A
DEPARTMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY
LED AMAZING MRS. STULTS AND I'M
LOOKING FORWARD TO MANY OF THE
EIGHT ZERO WEEK ACTIVITIES THIS
WEEK.
ONE OF THE ITEMS PROPOSED IN
THE ORIGINAL EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN
WHICH WAS PASSED FIVE YEARS AGO
BY THIS BODY WAS A GREEN RENTAL
HOUSING ORDINANCE TO FACILITATE
DECARBONIZATION OF RENTAL
HOUSING WITHIN THE CITY WHICH
MAKES MORE THAN HALF OF OUR
HOUSING UNITS THE GOAL AND THE
ORIGINAL PLAN WAS TO HAVE THE
ORDINANCE IN PLACE BY TWENTY
TWENTY TWO.
SO THIS ORDINANCE HAS BEEN A
LONG TIME IN THE MAKING AND IS
LONG OVERDUE.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE THAT
IT IS FINALLY BEFORE YOU ALL
TODAY I'M DISAPPOINTED THAT
SOME PROPERTY OWNERS HAVE BEEN
WORKING SO HARD TO OPPOSE THIS
PROPOSAL RATHER THAN
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THEY SHARE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR REDUCING OUR
COMMUNITIES GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS AND IMPROVING THE
EFFICIENCY AND COMFORT OF THEIR
HOUSING BECAUSE THERE ARE A
HUGE VARIETY OF WAYS THAT
PROPERTY OWNERS CAN ACHIEVE
COMPLIANCE, MANY OF WHICH ARE
VERY MODEST AND NO OR LOW COST
IS NOT PLAUSIBLE TO ME THAT
THIS MEASURE WILL CAUSE RENTS
TO INCREASE AND MY
UNDERSTANDING THERE ARE MANY
RESOURCES BEING PROVIDED THAT
WILL ASSIST PROPERTY OWNERS
WITH THE PROCESS OF MEETING THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE ORDINANCE.
SO I URGE YOU TO VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THE GREEN RENTAL HOUSING
ORDINANCE AND TO NOT AMEND IT
IN WAYS THAT WILL DELAY OR
WEAKEN IT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LARRY
.
I AM VERY DRUNK, MOSTLY RETIRED
AFTER A LONG CAREER OF PRACTICE
TEACHING AND RESEARCH AT
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL
SCHOOL.
I LIVE TO WARD THREE.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF THE GREEN RENTAL HOUSING
ORDINANCE ON NOVEMBER 4TH.
TWENTY NINETEEN I WAS THE FIRST
SPEAKER RIGHT HERE TO SPEAK
BEFORE THIS COUNCIL IN SUPPORT
OF ESTABLISHING THE GOAL
OF CITYWIDE CARBON NEUTRALITY
BY TWENTY THIRTY THAT
RESOLUTION WAS PASSED
UNANIMOUSLY BY THIS COUNCIL
SINCE THAT TIME THE EXCELLENT
EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN HAS BEEN
ESTABLISHED AND OUTSTANDING
TEAM HAS BEEN PUT TO WORK AND
PERSONAL FUNDING HAS BEEN
APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL AND BY
VOTERS.
WE ALL NEED TO PULL TOGETHER TO
MEET THIS IMPORTANT
CARBON NEUTRALITY GOAL.
I'M SPECIALLY MOTIVATED BY THE
HEALTH PROBLEMS CAUSED BY
BURNING FOSSIL FUELS.
AIR POLLUTION IS NOW THE SECOND
LEADING CAUSE OF DEATH
ACCOUNTING FOR MORE THAN 10
PERCENT OF DEATHS WORLDWIDE AND
SEVERAL THOUSAND EACH YEAR IN
MICHIGAN BECAUSE OF AIR
POLLUTION FROM OUR BURNING
OF FOSSIL FUELS WE ARE ALL AT
INCREASED RISK OF DEATH OR
DISABILITY FROM HEART DISEASE
STROKE, LUNG DISEASE, PNEUMONIA
AND CANCER FOR OUR CHILDREN
THIS POLLUTION CONTRIBUTES TO
LOW BIRTH WEIGHT ASTHMA, AUTISM
AND OTHER PROBLEMS.
THE GREEN RENTAL HOUSING
ORDINANCE IS A MODEST STEP.
LANDLORDS WILL FIND THAT THEY
CAN LANDLORDS FIND MAMA.
>> MY APOLOGIES.
LANDLORDS WILL FIND THAT THEY
ALREADY SATISFY MANY ITEMS ON
THE CHECKLIST AND THAT OTHER
ITEMS HAVE NO ASSOCIATED COSTS
SUCH AS HOLDING A RENTER
SUSTAINABILITY SESSION ONCE A
YEAR, CONDUCTING A FREE HOME
ENERGY ASSESSMENT WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT OF A PLAN AND
ALLOWING CLOTHESLINES LANDLORDS
USING THE CHECKLIST WILL HAVE
12 MONTHS BEFORE THEIR FIRST
INSPECTION AND THREE AND A HALF
YEARS TO MEET THE HIGHER
REQUIREMENTS OF COMPLIANCE
PERIOD TO LANDLORDS SAY WHY DO
YOU SINGLE US OUT AND NOT
HOMEOWNERS?
THEY RAISE A VALID QUESTION.
I RECOMMEND THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL RESPOND TO THIS NOT BY
DELAYING THE STANDARDS FOR
LANDLORD BUT BY DEVELOPING
STANDARDS FOR US HOMEOWNERS TO
IMPROVE THE CARBROOK
CARBON FOOTPRINT OF OUR HOMES.
I URGE YOU TO PASS THIS
RESOLUTION NOT TO DELAY IT AND
NOT TO SUBSTANTIALLY WEAKEN IT.
THE HEALTH OF OUR WORLD AND ITS
PEOPLE INCLUDING THE CITIZENS
OF ANN ARBOR DEPENDS ON IT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DIANA
WATCHES
DIANA WATCHES
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KEN GARBA
MAKES ME YOUR TABLE KEN GABBER
SECOND WORD IF THEY WAS THE
FIRST PERSON TO SPEAK TO YOU ON
JUNE 1ST TWENTY TWENTY ABOUT
EIGHT HERE I THINK I WAS IN THE
SECOND AND WE'RE FIVE YEARS IN
LIKE KENNY ROGERS.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD THAT IS
YOUR WEEK ACTIVITIES BUT I HAVE
SOME HARD FACTS FOR CITYWIDE
EMISSIONS IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE WHERE ONE POINT NINETY
THREE MILLION METRIC TON CO2
EQUIVALENT DOWN ONLY SLIGHTLY
FROM TWENTY NINETEEN WE DON'T
EVEN COUNT SCOP THREE EMISSIONS
FROM SUPPLY CHAIN AND PERSONAL
CONSUMPTION WE DON'T NEED A
COMMUNITY CONVERSATION ABOUT
OFFSETS WHICH I OPPOSE BUT
THERE IS NOW OPEN TALK ABOUT
EXTENDING THE TWENTY THIRTY
TWENTY THIRTY DEADLINE THAT
WON'T SOLVE THE PROBLEM THROUGH
SEVERAL H0 PROGRAMS WERE
DELAYED STATE LEVEL CHANGES
HAVEN'T HAPPENED.
FEDERAL GRANTS COULD BE
CANCELED BUT THE PROBLEM GOES
DEEPER.
THE PLAN RESTS ON A
FUNDAMENTALLY FLAWED PREMISE
THAT TARGETED SUBSIDIES BLOCK
BUYS INFRASTRUCTURE CHANGES A
MILD REGULATION CAN CHANGE
BEHAVIOR.
FOR EXAMPLE BIKE LANES HAVEN'T
REDUCED VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED
VEHICLE TRIPS WITHIN THE CITY
ARE UP THREE YEARS IN A ROW.
BUS TRIPS ARE DOWN FROM TWENTY
NINETEEN GAS AND NEW BUILDINGS
WERE SUPPOSED TO END IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO BUT THE MYRIAD GOING
UP ACROSS THE STREET RIGHT
THERE WILL BURN GAS FOR DECADES
TO COME.
MANY OTHER BUILDINGS TO OUR AS
PARTNERS ARE DOING GREAT THINGS
BUT THEY'RE NOT LOWERING
EMISSIONS IN MY VIEW THAT'S
BECAUSE YOU ZERO IMPLIES THAT
THE TRANSITION WILL ONLY NOT BE
PAINLESS JOYFUL IT'S A FALLACY
JUST LIKE GREEN GROWTH YOU
WON'T FIND THE WORD SACRIFICE
OR THE PHRASE LIVING WITH LESS
IN THE AGE OF ZERO PLANT AND
EXCUSE ME AND BECAUSE WE FOUND
FOR SO LONG RICH COUNTRIES AND
CITIES NOW NEED DOUBLE DIGIT
EMISSION CUTS EVERY YEAR TO HIT
THE TWO DEGREE PARIS TARGET.
THAT MEANS RADICALLY SLASHING
CONSUMPTION, NORMALIZING
DRIVING, FLYING GAS NEW STUFF
WE MUST ALL CUT BACK ESPECIALLY
THE WEALTHY WHO ARE THE BIGGEST
EMITTERS BUT THERE ARE NO
CHECKS ON CONSUMPTION EVS I'M
SORRY YOU ARE NOT A CLIMATE
SOLUTION.
TRANSIT IS EVEN OUR WEAK GREEN
HOUSING ORDINANCE WHICH YOU'LL
CONSIDER TONIGHT GETS PUSHBACK
FROM LANDLORDS BECAUSE THEY
TAKE NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR
CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> NONE OF US DO REALLY.
BY THE WAY, I AGREE WITH KENNY
ROGERS AND THE REGION ON THE
ORDINANCE BUT I ALSO COMMEND
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON FOR
TAKING RENTER CONCERNS INTO
CONSIDERATION BECAUSE I BELIEVE
THERE IS A REAL CHANCE THAT
LANDLORDS WILL RETALIATE EVEN
THOUGH THE ORDINANCE REALLY
DOESN'T JUSTIFY THAT BACK TO
ZERO.
WE DON'T REALLY EVEN KNOW OUR
IMPACT THAT MARIA WILL EMIT ONE
HUNDRED FIFTY THREE METRIC TON
CO2 EACH YEAR ROUND TRIP FLIGHT
TO GERMANY SIX POINT SEVEN TONS
PER PERSON.
>> MY RENTED CONDO LEAKED FIVE
POINT FOUR TONS LAST YEAR.
APOLOGIZE FOR USE THAT PEOPLE
SHUT DOWN IT NEGATIVE STORIES
MAYBE BUT IT'S ABOUT
ACCOUNTABILITY RIGHT NOW THERE
IS NO SO THE CLIMATE DOESN'T
CARE ABOUT CARBON NEUTRALITY
GOALS.
IT ONLY CARES ABOUT THE RAW
PHYSICS THE MOLECULES OF CO2
AND OTHER GREENHOUSE GASES IN
THE ATMOSPHERE AND THERE WE'RE
FAILING.
>> I THINK WE NEED TO CHANGE
OUR APPROACH.
THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
CHOUKRI NEED TO CONSUME CHUCK
THREE BOMBS ON PEOPLE.
>> THAT'S WHAT YOU NEED TO DO.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CHUCK RIGHT
MA'AM INGRAM IS PART OF A GROUP
YES.
HOW MANY REPEATED DISRUPTIONS
ARE WE GOING TO ALLOW FROM A
SINGLE MEMBER OF THE AUDIENCE
BEFORE WE ASK HER TO LEAVE THE
MEETING?
I'M LEAVING.
DON'T HERE I DO NOT REGRET NOT
ALL BE OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
CHUCK GREEN.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITS
.
GOOD EVENING.
I BRING GOOD NEWS TO COUNCIL
TONIGHT.
IT'S THE PUBLICATION OF THE
HOLOCAUST ENCYCLOPEDIA BY THE
ACADEMIC RESEARCH MEDIA REVIEW
EDUCATION GROUP AND CAN BE
PURCHASED FOR ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS FROM THE COMMITTEE FOR
OPEN DISCUSSION ON THE
HOLOCAUST WEBSITE HERE IT IS IN
PRINT FORM.
MORE GOOD NEWS FOR ANN ARBOR
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS IS THAT
THERE'S A FREE ONLINE VERSION
WHERE THEY CAN ACCESS THIS
INFORMATION.
>> LET'S SHOW HOW THIS
REFERENCE BOOK CAN BE USED.
EARLY LAST MONTH THE BBC
PUBLISHED A STORY A STORY BY
SONJA MATHER ENTITLED FAMILY
HAUNTED BY NAZI LAMPSHADE MADE
OF HUMAN SKIN.
>> THE ARTICLE DESCRIBES HOW
THE BARONESS LYNNE GOLD GOLDING
AGED NINETY ONE REMEMBERED HER
FATHER BRINGING HOME A
LAMPSHADE MADE FROM HUMAN SKINS
SEIZED FROM A CONCENTRATION
CAMP AND BROUGHT HOME FOR
EVIDENCE.
LET'S ASSUME ONE OF OUR
STUDENTS READS THIS ARTICLE AND
WANTS TO CHECK OUT ITS
VERACITY, HE CAN NOW ACCESS THE
HOLOCAUST ENCYCLOPEDIA AND READ
THE SECTION ON LAMPSHADES
OF HUMAN SKIN PAGE THREE TWENTY
FIVE THERE HE WILL READ IN AN
INTERVIEW WITH THAT SS JUDGE
CONRAD MORGAN GRANTED BRITISH
HISTORIAN JOHN TOLAND YEARS
AFTER THE WAR HE INSISTED THAT
THE STORIES ABOUT ILSA USED
USING TATTOOED HUMAN SKIN FOR
LAMPSHADES AND OTHER OBJECTS
WERE UNFOUNDED LEGENDS.
HE HAD SEARCHED THE HOUSEHOLD
HIMSELF DURING THE WAR WHEN
INVESTIGATING CRIMES COMMITTED
BY ILSE'S HUSBAND WITHOUT
FINDING ANY SUCH OBJECTS.
IN ADDITION, STUDENT FURTHER
READS ACCORDING TO THE
STATEMENTS OF GENERAL CLAY
OF THE US ARMY, THE ALLEGED
HUMAN SKIN LAMPSHADES ARE
SUPPOSED TO HAVE CONSISTED
OF GOATSKIN AT THE BUCHENWALD
MUSEUM.
SUPPOSE THAT EYEWITNESSES
CLAIMED THAT THE EXISTENCE
OF SUCH A LAMP ALTHOUGH THEY
ALSO CLAIM IT WAS CONVENIENTLY
DESTROYED WITHOUT A TRACE IN
NINETEEN FORTY ONE ALL OTHER
OBJECTS FOUND LATER WERE EITHER
MADE OF SYNTHETIC LEATHER,
ANIMAL LEATHER TEXTILE OR
CARDBOARD.
THIS ENCYCLOPEDIA WILL HELP OUR
STUDENTS DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN
UNSUPPORTED ALLEGATIONS AND
FACTS.
I THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS REIA CHAPEL
.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS RACHEL
CHAPEL AND I'M A RESIDENT
OF ANN ARBOR AND WARD ONE AND A
MEMBER OF THE HURON VALLEY
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS
OF AMERICA.
I WANTED TO SPEAK TODAY ABOUT
THE CITY'S POLICY ON FEDERAL
IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT OVER
THE PAST FIVE MONTHS WE'VE
AN
ESCALATION OF OUR COUNTRY'S
ALREADY DRACONIAN IMMIGRATION
LAWS
AS THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION HAS SOUGHT TO
EXPEL IMMIGRANTS UNDOCUMENTED
OR NOT FROM THIS COUNTRY AND IS
GREATLY EMPOWERED ICE THE FBI
AND OTHER AGENCIES TO CARRY OUT
THESE MASS DEPORTATIONS.
ALREADY THEY'VE COME INTO OUR
COMMUNITY TO CONDUCT RAIDS,
REQUEST ACCESS TO CIVIC RECORDS
AND MORE IN NORTHERN MICHIGAN,
ICE HAS CONTRACTED A PRIVATE
COMPANY TO OPEN ONE OF THE
LARGEST DETENTION CENTERS IN
THE NATION TO BE ABLE TO SPEED
UP THEIR DEPORTATIONS.
THIS CAN ONLY MEAN THAT ICE
WILL BECOME MORE AND MORE
ACTIVE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
IT IS FAR PAST THE TIME WHEN
THE CITY MUST STAND UP TO THESE
AUTHORITARIAN OVERREACHES AND
PUT A STOP TO ANY COLLABORATION
WITH THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
IN CARRYING OUT THESE
DEPORTATIONS, CITY COUNCIL MUST
TAKE ACTION TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE CITY BANABA WILL NOT
COLLABORATE WITH ICE AND THIS
CAN BE PREVENTED AND THIS CAN
BE DONE THROUGH THROUGH
PREVENTING COLLABORATION CAN BE
PREVENTED THROUGH RESTRICTIONS
ON THREE THINGS FIRST, NO CITY
FUNDING FOR FEDERAL IMMIGRATION
EFFORTS 287 G AGREEMENTS WHICH
DEPUTIZE LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
TO ACT AS FEDERAL IMMIGRATION
AGENTS ARE FUNDED ENTIRELY BY
LOCAL BUDGETS.
THE CITY'S FUNDS SHOULD NOT BE
USED TO GIVE ASSISTANCE TO ICE
TERRORIZING OUR COMMUNITY AND
TO HELP ENFORCE THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S IMMIGRATION
AGENDA NO TO NO ASSISTANCE ICE
TO DETAIN BEYOND RELEASE OUR
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES MUST
NOT HOLD INDIVIDUALS BEYOND
THEIR RELEASE DATE FOR THE
PURPOSE OF AIDING ICE AND
TAKING THAT PERSON INTO FEDERAL
CUSTODY.
THIS IS BLATANTLY
UNCONSTITUTIONAL AND NOT ONLY
HARMS THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
POLICE AND THE PUBLIC AND OUR
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES AT
LEGAL RISK AND NUMBER THREE, NO
JOINT ENFORCEMENT AND
INFORMATION SHARING WITH ICE OR
DHS.
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR DOES NOT
WORK ALONGSIDE ICE AND DHS IN
ANY WAY ANY SUPPORT
COORDINATION OR CAPITULATION TO
ICE IS A BETRAYAL TO THE VALUES
OF OUR CITY AND TO OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
NOW IS NOT THE TIME FOR
PREEMPTIVE ACQUIESCENCE.
WE MUST ALL BE WILLING TO STAND
UP TO THESE AUTHORITARIAN
ATTEMPTS TO DIVIDE OUR
COMMUNITIES AND RIP PEOPLE AWAY
FROM THEIR FAMILIES, FRIENDS,
COWORKERS AND NEIGHBORS.
THIS MOMENT DEMANDS BRAVERY AND
BOLDNESS.
>> IT'S TIME TO SHOW IT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JAKE BAUER
.
>> JAKE POWER
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER
CORRADI.
PETER CORRADI, OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS JOHN SALIBI, MASAFUMI AND
OVER DON'T BE FOOLED.
THIS EIGHT TO ZERO IS A GIMMICK
.
THERE IS NO WAY THIS TEENY
LITTLE TOWN CAN EVEN MAKE THE
SMALLEST DENT IN CARBON CARBON
EMISSIONS.
THIS IS TO KEEP YOU BUSY WHILE
THEY KEEP PUMPING MONEY INTO
BOMBARDMENT OF THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
GAZA HAS ENDURED SEVEN TIMES
ATOMIC BOMBS THAT THEY DROPPED
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED
STATES DROPPED ON HIROSHIMA.
THERE IS NO SCHOOL, NO
HOSPITAL, NO UNIVERS, NOTHING
LEFT AND THAT HAS BEEN CARRIED
OUT WITH THE MONEY THAT THE
UNITED STATES GIVES TO THE
ZIONISTS RACIST RAPIST STATE
OF ISRAEL.
HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE ARE DEAD AND MORE ARE
DYING EVERY DAY I HAVE GIVEN
THIS BODY THAT IS SITTING RIGHT
IN FRONT OF ME THIS DESPICABLY,
UNBELIEVABLY INHUMANE BODY.
MANY TIMES I HAVE ASKED THEM TO
PASS A RESOLUTION THAT SAYS CUT
OFF THE MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
OUR MAYOR OUR COUNCIL MEMBERS
HAVE DECLINED TIME AND TIME
AGAIN THEIR HANDS ARE AS BLOODY
IF NOT MORE BLOODY THAN THOSE
WHO PRESS THE BUTTON AND SHOOT
CHILDREN.
THEY HAVE PROTECTED THIS
ZIONIST RAPISTS RACES STATE
THAT IS ISRAEL.
OUR MAYOR HAS SAID PRAYERS TO
THE ZIONIST RACISTS RAPISTS
STATE OF ISRAEL TO THE SHAME
OF HIM HE HAS PRAYED FOR THE
STATE OF ISRAEL WHERE THEY ARE
MURDERING PEOPLE.
THAT IS WHAT HE HAS DONE.
OUR COUNCIL MEMBER HERE MESSIAH
HAS ACCEPTED MONEY FROM FRIENDS
AND FRIENDS OF ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES.
SO YOU CAN SEE WHO YOU'RE
DEALING WITH HERE, PEOPLE WHO
ARE COMMITTED TO SUPPORTING AND
SAVING ISRAEL'S.
BUT I HAVE SOMETHING TO TELL
YOU.
HISTORY TELLS US ISRAEL IS GONE
.
IT'LL BE GONE.
IT'LL BE GONE AND THERE WOULD
BE NO NOBODY WILL REMEMBER
ISRAEL WHAT THEY WILL REMEMBER
IS DISCUSSED.
BUT YOU GUYS YOU ARE
RESPONSIBLE TO SPEAK UP IF YOU
SAY NOTHING NOW YOU WILL BE
EXPOSED AS YOU HAVE BEEN TO THE
PEOPLE WATCHING YOU KEEP SILENT
AT THE TIME OF A GENOCIDE AND
THEY WILL KICK YOU OUT.
THERE IS STILL ELECTIONS IN
THIS COUNTRY EVEN THOUGH
THEY'RE RIGGED EVEN THOUGH YOU
GET UP THERE WITH THE MONEY
THAT YOUR BUDDIES GIVE YOU SO
YOU CAN BE ELECTED AND
REELECTED STILL THERE ARE
ELECTIONS WE WILL KICK YOU OUT
AND WE WILL GET UP THERE AND WE
WILL STOP FOOLING PEOPLE WITH
LIKE EIGHT TO ZERO AND STUFF
LIKE THAT.
WE WILL KICK YOU OUT AND WE
WILL BUILD A NEW BECAUSE THE
PEOPLE CAN DO IT FREE
PALESTINE.
THANK STORMING ISRAEL.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN.
>> THE RESOLUTION WE HAVE BEEN
DEMANDING FOR TWENTY TWO YEARS
SAYS WE ARE AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL.
ISRAEL HAS KILLED AND INJURED
ABOUT TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
PEOPLE IN GAZA IN THE LAST SIX
HUNDRED DAYS WITH YOUR TAX
MONEY, WITH YOUR POLITICAL
SUPPORT I'M TALKING TO THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL, THE ANN
HARBOR CITY COUNCIL VALUES
PALESTINIAN LIFE LESS THAN IT
VALUES INSECTS'.
THAT'S NOT HYPERBOLE.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL
JUMPED TO APPROVE A RESOLUTION
TO PROTECT INSEC AND ENCOURAGE
PEOPLE TO MOW THEIR LAWNS LESS
WHICH WE DO BY THE WAY.
WELL, IF YOU CARE ABOUT INSECTS
ENOUGH TO PASS A RESOLUTION TO
TAKE YOUR CITY COUNCIL TIME TO
PASS A RESOLUTION FOR INSECTS,
YOU CAN WELL TAKE TEN MINUTES
AND APPROVE A RESOLUTE ACTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
>> YOU KNOW WE ARE IN THE
MIDDLE OF A HOLOCAUST AGAINST
THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE AND I
KNOW SOMETHING ABOUT HOLOCAUSTS
ALL OF YOU DO.
YOU CAN SEE ONE HAPPENING RIGHT
IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE IN GAZA
RIGHT NOW.
THE MAYOR DID PUBLICLY READ A
PRAYER FOR THE STATE OF ISRAEL
.
WHAT AN ETERNAL SHAME THIS IS.
WHILE ISRAEL WAS BOMBING THE
OUT OF THE GAZA STRIP AND
MURDERING COUNTLESS
PALESTINIANS AND YES, COUNCIL
MEMBER JAN MEYER DID TAKE
CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM OLD FRIENDS
OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES.
>> THAT DOES NOT MEAN THE CITY
COUNCIL CANNOT BE COMPELLED TO
LISTEN TO REASON AND APPROVE
THE RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL.
>> AND IF YOU DON'T, DON'T BE
SHOCKED IF THE LOCAL DSA
PRIMARIES YOU RUNS AGAINST YOU
AND THROWS YOU OUT AT ELECTION
TIME, THERE'S A VERY BIG
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS
OF AMERICA CHAPTER IN ANN ARBOR
.
DON'T BE SHOCKED IF THAT
HAPPENS.
IF YOU VALUE PEOPLE SO LITTLE
IF YOU ARE SO VICIOUSLY RACIST
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
,DON'T BE SHOCKED IF YOU GET
PRIMARIED AND THROWN OUT
OF OFFICE FROM THE RIVER TO THE
SEA, PALESTINE WILL BE FREE
FROM THE RIVER TO THE SEA.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEREMY
HAYLIE.
I THANK YOU ARE OUR ONLY HOPE
THESE GUYS ARE THEY WILL DRIVE
TO ALL KINDS OF STUFF NOT THE
GERMAN TOWNSHIP.
>> THANK YOU FOR KEEPING THE
CALM AND ASKING FOR THE NOISE
TO GO DOWN IN THE HOUSE THIS
NICE WHAT I WENT TO COLLEGE,
TOOK UP ONE OF THE PARKING JOBS
AND I WAS BEING TRAINED.
WE WENT TO SECTION THE COLLEGE
AND WE FOUND A CAR PARKED IN A
HANDICAPPED SPOT.
>> THE PERSON THAT IS TRAINING
ME SAID THAT WAS THE VICE
PRESIDENT'S CAR.
I SAID SO WHY DOES THEY HAVE A
HANDICAPPED TAG TO BE PARKED
THERE?
SO I PROCEEDED TO STILL GIVE
THEM A TICKET AND SAY THAT HE
DIDN'T LIKE THAT.
HENCE I DIDN'T LAST LONG THAT
JOB THE NEXT ONE COME TO WAS
WORKING THAT WAS TO ANN ARBOR
AT A CHEMICAL PLANT FACTORY
MAKING THINGS AS THE PLANT
CHEMIST THE OWNER OF THE
FACTORY DID NOT WANT TO DO THE
RIGHT THING AND FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS I KEPT
ASKING FOR STUFF TO TREAT WHEN
I NEEDED TO TREAT TO FALL OUT
WHAT I NEED TO FOLLOW OUT SO I
CAN COLLECT IT SO IT WASN'T HIT
SYSTEM.
THEY NEGLECTED TO DO THAT AND
WHILE I WAS THERE OVER THE TIME
THEY DECEIVED THE PEOPLE WHO
WOULD COME
TO ALL THE WATER
TEST BECAUSE THE PEOPLE WHO
WOULD DO THE WATER TEST FROM
THE CITY WOULD SAY HEY COMPANY
WE'RE GOING TO BE OUT THERE AT
TEN O'CLOCK MONDAY.
SOME COMPANY ORDERS WILL TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THAT LIKE MINDED
AND SAID THEY KNEW THE
CERTAINTY OF IT.
PEOPLE WOULD BE AT THEIR
MACHINES RUNNING THINGS THROUGH
THE MACHINES BUT RUNNING ONLY
WATER THROUGH THE MACHINES.
SO WHEN THE WHAT PEOPLE WOULD
COME TEST THE WATER?
WHAT DO YOU THINK THEY FOUND
HERE?
YOU GUYS ARE DOING PRETTY DARN
GOOD OR NOTHING WRONG AND I CAN
PUT UP WITH THAT.
I KEPT COMPLAINING SO THEY WIND
UP FIRE ME AND ESSENTIALLY WE
DAY AFTER WEEK AFTER MY
DAUGHTER WAS BORN I CALLED THE
DEQUEUE AT THE TIME AND
REPORTED EVERY VIOLATION THAT
THEY WERE DOING BECAUSE I KNEW
EVERYONE THEY WERE DOING
BECAUSE I KNEW ALL OF IT AND
THEY WERE EVENTUALLY SHUT DOWN
AND THE SECOND ONE COME TO WORK
IN THAT WCC WENT TO A COLLEGE
BOARD MEETING AND JANUARY IN
TWENTY SEVEN TO SPEAK ABOUT
SOME FINANCIAL STUFF.
THE PRESIDENT THE COLLEGE CAME
TO ME BEFORE THE BOARD MEETING
AND ASKED ME TO SPEAK TO HIM
PRIVATELY BEFORE NOT SPEAKING
AND I DID THAT AND TWO WEEKS
LATER I WAS CALLED TO DINANATH
MATH AND NATURAL SCIENCES AND I
WAS RENDERED BY GRANT WAS
RETALLACK AND I RUN OUT OF TIME
BUT THE POLICY I WAS HIRED ON
WAS AN UNOFFICIAL SPEND IT OR
LOSE POLICY OF GOVERNMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
BREEKS I'LL START WITH
APOLOGIES TO THE PUBLIC WHO HAD
TO LISTEN TO A HOLOCAUST DENIER
.
AS YOU NOTICE WE WE ALWAYS TURN
OUR BACK ON THAT JUST BEFORE I
GO TO A FEW ANNOUNCEMENTS I
WANTED TO ADDRESS ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT GOT RAISED ARE
REQUESTS THAT GOT RAISED IN
PUBLIC COMMENT AND BY FOLKS ARE
ASKING US TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
ARE ON THE RIGHT SIDE
OF IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT
POLICY.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO TAKE A LOOK
AT OUR 2017 RESOLUTION THAT WAS
PASSED.
I'M HAPPY TO SEND IT ALONG.
>> IT ADDRESSES MANY OF THE
ISSUES THAT YOU RAISED.
SO HAPPY TO SHARE THAT WITH YOU
ONTO SOME GOOD NEWS YOU HEARD
ABOUT EIGHT TO ZERO WE COMING
THIS WEEK JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT FOLKS DRAW ATTENTION
TO THE WARD FIVE PARTY THAT'S
HAPPENING AT WEST PARK ON
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS.
MAKE SURE YOU CHECK OUT
INVITATION TO THAT ON THE
CITY'S ENGAGE WEBSITE.
I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF FILLING OUT THE
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE ANNUAL
TRANSPORTATION SURVEY AND
EXPECT THAT NEXT WEEK THE
INVERSE SECOND DRAFT OF THE
COUNTRY OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
WILL BE RELEASED.
SO KEEP YOUR EYES TUNED OUT FOR
THEM.
LOOK OUT FOR THAT.
AND THEN FINALLY I JUST WANTED
TO SAY THANKS TO CITY BOTH
COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN AND I
ATTENDED THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF CITY
TRANSPORTATION OFFICIALS
NATIONAL CONFERENCE IN D.C.
THIS LAST WEEK.
IT WAS A GREAT CONFERENCE WHERE
WE GOT TO LEARN ABOUT BEST
PRACTICES AND TRANSPORTATION
POLICY AND C VISIT SOME OF THE
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
THERE.
I'M SURE WE'LL SEND AROUND A
REPORT TO FOLKS YOU CAN SEE
WHAT WE LEARNED AND SOME
PICTURES OF ONE OF THE GREAT
THINGS THAT DC IS DOING IS SOME
OF THEIR PUBLIC ART PUBLIC ART
WHICH THEY ALLOW SOME OF THEIR
RESIDENTS TO WORK WITH THE CITY
AND WE SAW A LOT OF A LOT
OF PRIDE DEMONSTRATED WITHIN
THE INFRASTRUCTURE FOR A PRIDE
MONTH WITH A THE BIKE LANES AND
ON INFRASTRUCTURE ACROSS TOWN.
SO THAT WAS GREAT TO SEE
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO IN CELEBRATION
OF A TWO ZERO.
I WANTED TO LET EVERYONE KNOW
THAT WARD ONE THE WARD ONE
EIGHT TWO ZERO WARD PARTY WILL
BE THIS FRIDAY, JUNE 6TH 6TH AT
LESLIE FROM FIVE THIRTY TO
SEVEN THIRTY.
SO COME ON COME ON AND
CELEBRATE WITH US.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
JOINING THE CHORUS HERE.
BUT THE AWARD TO A TWO ZERO
PARTY WILL BE TOMORROW TUESDAY
JUNE 3RD FROM FIVE THIRTY TO
SEVEN THIRTY AT GLACIER
HIGHLAND'S PARK.
JOIN THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION
STAFF AWARD TO COUNCIL MEMBERS,
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY AND
VEGE MICHIGAN TO GET TO KNOW
YOUR NEIGHBORS EAT PLANT BASED
TREATS AND GET TO KNOW AND
CELEBRATE A TWO ZERO CLIMATE
WORK.
THERE WILL ALSO BE A
NEIGHBORHOOD CLOTHING SWAP AS
PART OF THE WORD PARTY AND ITS
PERFECT WAY TO GIVE YOUR GENTLY
USED CLOTHING A NEW HOME
INSTEAD OF SENDING IT TO THE
LANDFILL AND YOU MIGHT JUST
FIND AN ITEM OF CLOTHING YOU'VE
BEEN LOOKING FOR WITHOUT HAVING
TO BUY A NEW.
EACH PERSON CAN BRING UP TO
FIVE ARTICLES OF CLOTHING IN
GOOD CONDITION NO STAINS, RIPS
OR HOLES BUT YOU MAY YOU MAY
ALSO TAKE FIVE ARTICLES
OF CLOTHING FROM THE SWAP AND
YOU CAN TAKE CLOTHING WITHOUT
BRINGING ANYTHING OR BRING
CLOTHING WITHOUT TAKING
ANYTHING.
SO I'D LIKE TO EXTEND MY THANKS
TO DR. STULZ, THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION
STAFF FOR PUTTING THIS ALL
TOGETHER AND I HOPE TO SEE YOU
TOMORROW.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK, I HAD
THE PLEASURE OF RUNNING IN MY
FIFTH STRAIGHT DEXTER TO ANN
ARBOR HALF-MARATHON YESTERDAY.
I'VE RUN OUT A NUMBER OF RACES
IN MY LIFE.
THE DEXTER TO ANN ARBOR RACE IS
DEFINITELY ONE OF MY FAVORITES
.
IT'S HARD TO TRULY UNDERSTAND
HOW MUCH WORK GOES INTO PUTTING
SOMETHING ON LIKE A RACE FOR
THOUSANDS OF PARTICIPANTS BUT
THE ANN ARBOR TRACK CLUB DOES
AN AMAZING JOB.
RACE ORGANIZERS HAVE ALSO
PLACED A HUGE EMPHASIS ON
SUSTAINABILITY PERFECT FOR A
TWO ZERO WEEK THEY HAVE
ACHIEVED THE INCREDIBLE RESULT
OF A NEARLY ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
LANDFILL DIVERSION RATE.
FOR INSTANCE, AFTER THE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE RACE THAT INCLUDED
OVER THREE THOUSAND
PARTICIPANTS, ORGANIZERS
LANDFILLED ONLY FIFTEEN POINT
SIX POUNDS OF WASTE WHILE THE
REMAINING ONE THOUSAND PLUS
POUNDS OF WASTE WAS COMPOSTED
OR RECYCLED.
I WANT TO GIVE A SHOUT OUT TO
THE MANY COLLABORATORS AND
PARTNERS THAT HELPED PUT ON THE
EVENT INCLUDING OUR VERY OWN
ANN ARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION A GREAT EVENT AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO PARTICIPATING
AGAIN NEXT YEAR.
NEXT, HAPPY PRIDE MONTH FOR ME
PRIDE MONTH IS SPECIAL.
I CAME OUT AS GAY OVER FIFTEEN
YEARS AGO.
AT THAT TIME IT WAS A PRETTY
SCARY AND RADICAL THING TO DO
IN RURAL WISCONSIN.
HOWEVER I WAS AND STILL AM ONE
OF THE LUCKY ONES IN THAT MY
FAMILY AND FRIENDS WERE NOTHING
BUT LOVING AND SUPPORTIVE IN
THE FIFTEEN PLUS YEARS SINCE
THEN I HAVE LEARNED THAT COMING
OUT IS A REPEAT ACT.
I COME OUT EVERY TIME I REFER
TO MY HUSBAND I COME OUT EVERY
TIME I HOLD HIS HAND IN PUBLIC
I COME OUT EVERY DAY AND WHILE
IT'S STILL NOT EASY EVEN IN A
WELCOMING CITY LIKE ANN ARBOR
I'VE GOTTEN BETTER AT COMING
OUT DAY AFTER DAY.
ONE REASON FOR THIS CELEBRATING
PRIDE EACH YEAR HAS GIVEN ME
RENEWED CONFIDENCE AND STRENGTH
TO LIVE MORE AUTHENTICALLY AND
TO ACT A LITTLE GAYER AND TO
VIEW MY DIFFERENCE AS A
STRENGTH RATHER THAN AN
ABERRATION.
SO YES, CELEBRATING PRIDE IS
STILL IMPORTANT AFTER ALL THESE
YEARS EVEN TO ME IF PRIDE CAN
STILL MEAN THAT MUCH TO ME A
HAPPY MARRIED ADULT MEMBER
OF THE LGBT COMMUNITY IMAGINE
WHAT IT MEANS TO THE AVERAGE
YOUNG PERSON TODAY WONDERING
WHY THEY TOO ARE DIFFERENT.
>> PROGRESS NEVER STOPS
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES TO
EQUALITY AND ACCEPTANCE.
I WANT TO THANK MY COLLEAGUES
FOR THE PRIDE MONTH
PROCLAMATION EARLIER AND THANK
OUR COMMUNITY FOR WHAT IS
SURELY TO BE A HAPPY AND
PRIDEFUL CELEBRATION THIS
MONTH.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA.
THANK YOU.
FIRST AND FOREMOST I TOO WANT
TO WISH EVERYONE A HAPPY PRIDE.
THANK YOU MAYOR FOR THE
PROCLAMATION THE PROCLAMATION
EARLIER AND TO THE LEADERS
JUNIPER AND AIDEN WHO ACCEPTED
THE PROCLAMATION THIS EVENING
ESPECIALLY SINCE I ALSO
UNDERSTAND THAT IT IS FINALS
WEEK AND THEY WERE RUSHING BACK
OUT OF HERE TO CONTINUE
STUDYING IT WITH PEOPLE,
ESPECIALLY OUR TRANS NEIGHBORS
UNDER RENEWED AND RELENTLESS
ATTACK NOT JUST FROM THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION BUT FROM
REPUBLICAN LED GOVERNMENTS
AROUND THE COUNTRY IS MORE
IMPORTANT THAN EVER THAT WE
TAKE THESE MOMENTS TO CELEBRATE
WITH ONE ANOTHER BUT ALSO TO
STAND UNITED AND RECOMMIT TO
FIGHTING FOR EQUAL RIGHTS AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY FROM THINGS LIKE
CRIMINALIZING HEALTH CARE
DECISIONS AND LEGALIZING
DISCRIMINATION IN SCHOOLS AND
PUBLIC FACILITIES TO FEDERAL
AID FUNDING, TEEN SUICIDE
PREVENTION AND CRISIS HOTLINES.
IT IS NOT A SURPRISE THAT UP TO
90 PERCENT OF LGBTQ YOUNG
PEOPLE REPORT THAT RECENT
POLITICS HAVE NEGATIVELY
IMPACTED THEIR MENTAL HEALTH
AND WELLBEING.
THAT'S WHY IT IS ESPECIALLY
IMPORTANT THAT WE CONTINUE TO
UPLIFT LGBTQ YOUTH IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND CONTINUE TO
PROVIDE SUPPORT WHERE WE CAN
AND TO SUPPORT ORGANIZATIONS
LIKE NEUTRAL ZONE WHO GIVE
TEENS A SPACE TO BE THEMSELVES
TO SUPPORT ONE ANOTHER AND TO
GROW AS LEADERS.
AS MY DEAR FRIEND THE LATE JIM
TOYE USED TO SAY WE ARE
CLIMBING THE MOUNTAIN
OF JUSTICE HAND IN HAND EVEN AS
BIGOTRY AND HATE ARE RESURGENT
IN TODAY'S POLITICS WE MUST
CONTINUE CLIMBING TOGETHER AND
I AM PROUD THAT ANN ARBOR IS
HELPING TO LEAD THE WAY.
>> ADDITIONALLY, WE HAVE THREE
UPCOMING EVENTS THAT I WILL
SHARE COMING UP IN WARD THREE
THIS THURSDAY JUNE 5TH FROM
FIVE TO SEVEN P.M. AT THE ANN
ARBOR SENIOR CENTER.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON AND I
WILL JOIN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
ABAR ROBBIE AND SCOTT FOR A
TOWN HALL ON THE OLDER ADULTS
VILLAGE.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO HEAR
ABOUT THE COUNTY'S WORK TO
DATE, ASK QUESTIONS AND PROVIDE
FEEDBACK ABOUT HOW THESE
CRITICAL DOLLARS SHOULD BE
SPENT ON SATURDAY JUNE 7TH FROM
NOON TO TWO P.M., WARD THREE
WILL HOST TO 08 PARTY AT AABA
OAKS PARK IN THE BRYANT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE HOPE YOU'LL SWING BY AND
NEXT MONDAY JUNE 9TH FROM FIVE
TO SIX P.M. COUNCIL MEMBER
GARCIA EDWIN THE MAYOR AND I
WILL BE HOSTING A CONVERSATION
ABOUT THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN WITH CITY PLANNER
MICHELLE BENNET AGAIN AT THE
ANN ARBOR SENIOR CENTER.
AND THEN FINALLY FOR FANS
OF THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY IS THE SUMMER GAME THE
GAME STARTS AGAIN ON JUNE 11TH
AND I WILL BE WORKING WITH THE
LIBRARY AND WE HAVE THE
DIRECTOR HERE WITH US THIS
EVENING TO PROVIDE A SUMMER
GAME CODE AT THE START OF EACH
COUNCIL MEETING THROUGHOUT THE
SUMMER.
SO PLEASE TUNE IN AND HAPPY
PLAYING CARL ZIMMER IHR THANK
YOU.
LAST WEEK I HAD THE OPPORTUNITY
TO HELP REPRESENT ANN ARBOR AT
THE MACKINAC POLICY CONFERENCE
ALONG WITH MAYOR TAYLOR AND MY
COLLEAGUES AT DENHA AND MALIC
AND CITY ADMINISTRATOR TONY.
FOR THOSE WHO ARE AWARE
MACKINAC POLICY CONFERENCE IS
ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
STATEWIDE GATHERINGS
OF POLICYMAKERS, BUSINESS
LEADERS AND ADVOCACY
ORGANIZATION FRIENDS AND BEING
PRESENT REALLY HELPS ALLOW US
TO BUILD RELATIONSHIPS TO RAISE
OUR PROFILE AMONG DECISION
MAKERS TO TALK ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING IN ANN ARBOR AND TO LEARN
FROM OTHER LEADERS IN OTHER
COMMUNITIES WHO ARE FACING
SIMILAR CHALLENGES.
>> THIS IS PART OF AN ONGOING
AND CONCERTED EFFORT ON OUR
PART SINCE THE THE TWENTY
TWENTIES TOOK OFFICE TO REALLY
RAISE THE PROFILE OF ANN ARBOR
AMONG STATE LEADERS AND MOVE US
AWAY FROM SOME STEREOTYPES THAT
HAD EXISTED ABOUT ANN ARBOR AND
AND HAVE OUR GOALS, OUR POLICY
GOALS AND OUR NEEDS AND OUR
FUNDING NEEDS REALLY TAKEN
SERIOUSLY.
AND SO WE FOR THE FIRST TIME
HELD OUR OWN ANN ARBOR
RECEPTION AND IT WAS WELL
ATTENDED AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
BUILDING ON THAT IN THE FUTURE.
BUT I'M PLEASED TO REPORT THAT
A LOT OF REALLY IMPORTANT
CONVERSATIONS WERE HAD AND AND
WORK WAS DONE ON BEHALF OF CITY
RESIDENTS.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO INVITE PEOPLE
TO THE E TO ZERO AWARD FOR
PARTY THAT'S GOING TO BE AT
LATIN PARK ON THURSDAY, JUNE
5TH FROM FIVE THIRTY TO SEVEN
THIRTY AND I HOPE TO SEE YOU
THERE FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE NO AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY BOARD
PROVINI RAMASWAMY AND TO
PRESENT FOR CONSIDERATION AT
THE NEXT MEETING RESOLUTION TO
APPOINT MARK HULTZ TO THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION BOARD AS A NON
REGISTERED ELECTOR YOU'RE NOW
BEING FORCED TO SET THE AGENDA
OF THE MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SECONDED
BY COUNCILOR MACKENZIE HIGUAIN
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA WILL FAVOR THE MOUNTAIN
OF COUNCIL BRACKMAN TO SYRIANI
FURTHER FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
THE CONSENT AGENDA CMA ALL IN
FAVOR CAN SET THE AGENDA WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF CNN OPPOSED
THE CONSENT AGENDA SUCH CNN IS
APPROVED.
I THINK THERE ARE NO EIGHT
ITEMS WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF SEATTLE AND PERHAPS WITH TEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT.
THANK YOU.
>> CANINE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
A RIGHT OF WAY LICENSE WITH
PHENIX USC LLC FOR THE
OPERATION OF DOUGLAS
ELECTRICITY MICRO MOBILITY
DEVICES IN THE CITY.
THE NO MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
HAS BEEN SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISCUSSION.
>> PLEASE DO NOT SEE A NON
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN I
SUPPOSE I COULD HAVE JUST DONE
THIS DURING DISCUSSION BUT
MAINLY I WANTED TO PULL THIS
BECAUSE YOU MIGHT RECALL THAT
WE CONSIDERED THE RENEWAL
OF THIS AGREEMENT A YEAR AGO SO
JUNE OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WE
ENTERED INTO A SHORTER TERM
AGREEMENT AT THAT TIME WITH
RENEWAL PERIODS DONE ADMINISTER
ACTIVELY TO GIVE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE A CHANCE TO
NEGOTIATE NEW TERMS ON THE
CONTRACTS THAT WERE CONSISTENT
WITH SAFETY MEASURES AS WELL AS
PUBLIC NUISANCE MEASURES.
AND SO THIS IS A CONTRACT WITH
WHAT'S BRANDED A SPIN BUT NOW
KNOWN AS PHENIX AND IT'S TO
CONTINUE OPERATING THE DALLAS
ELECTRIC SCOOTERS AND THE BIKES
THE CHANGES THAT WERE INCLUDED
ARE LIKE I SAID, RELATED TO
SAFETY AND NUISANCE BEHAVIOR.
SO FOR DEVICE PER GAME THIS
AGREEMENT ADDS RIDER
ACCOUNTABILITY BY REQUIRING
USERS TO UPLOAD A PHOTO AFTER
PARKING AND PROVIDES INCENTIVES
FOR PREFERRED PARKING AND IT
WILL REGULARLY REPORT THIS
INFORMATION TO THE CITY.
IT REQUIRES A PUBLIC FACING
SYSTEM TO REPORT ABANDONED OR
MIS PARKED DEVICES MEANING THAT
IT WILL NOT RELY ON A TO FIX IT
IN HANDLING IMPROPER PARKING
REPORTS.
IT MANDATES THAT SPIN TAKES
ACTION WITHIN 24 HOURS
OF RECEIVING A REPORT IT
INTRODUCES SAFE START OR AN
EQUIVALENT WHICH IS AN APP
SOBRIETY CHECK FOR A LATE NIGHT
RIDERS IT REQUIRES AT LEAST ONE
IN-PERSON SAFETY EDUCATION
EVENT DURING THE LICENSE TERM.
IT ALSO INTRODUCES A HELMET
DISCOUNT PROGRAM TO PROMOTE
RIDER SAFETY.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I SAW
WHEN I WAS DC WITH ONE OF THEIR
COMPETITORS.
IF YOU TAKE A PHOTO OF YOURSELF
WITH A HELMET ON YOU GET A
DISCOUNTED RATE AND IT ALSO
REQUIRES QUARTERLY REPORTS ON
RIDER INJURIES INCLUDING
INCIDENT DETAILS, DEVICE
INVOLVED AND ANY OTHER PARTIES
AFFECTED.
SO I'M REALLY GRATEFUL FOR
STAFF FOR ALL OF THE CHANGES
THAT THEY WERE ABLE TO MAKE AND
LOOKING FORWARD TO APPROVING
THIS TONIGHT FOR THEIR
DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE POST IT
IS APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS, PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THIS CIVIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH THE
PUBLIC HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS
IN ALL INSTANCES OF THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR PUBLIC ENEMY NUMBER
ONE IMPORTANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE FIVE DEVELOPMENT
CODE REZONING OF THREE ACRES IN
TWC TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO PILLED
PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS PROPERTY THREE
EIGHT ONE THREE EIGHT ZERO ONE
ST. SCHOOL ROAD.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LET TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
NO ONE WITH THEIR HAND RAISED
SEE NO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED HEARING NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING REZONING OF TWO
POINT SIXTY FIVE ACRES FROM WPE
TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO WELL
PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT 286 TO ST.
SCHOOL ROAD.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
IS THERE ANY IN LINE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
NO HANDS RAISED
SEE NO ONE THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER THREE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING REZONING OF NINE
POINT EIGHT FIVE NINE ACRES.
SOME ARE FOR A MULTIFAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT TO PLL PUBLIC
LAND DISTRICT HICKORY NATURE
AREA EXPANSION REZONING TO
THREE TO FIVE CRYSTAL WAY.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
NO HANDS RAISED
SEE NO IN THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO FOR AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF ONE POINT TWO ONE
ACRES OF PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT
TO ONE DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY REZONING THREE
THOUSAND THREE S FIFTH AVENUE
IS ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL AND MAYOR
RALPH MCKIE FIFTH WARD THE
BACKGROUND AND LAYOUT AS THERE
WAS A TWENTY EIGHTEEN ELECTION.
FIFTY THREE PERCENT VOTED FOR
MAKING A LIBRARY ALLOWED A
PERMANENT CENTER DESPITE
VEHEMENT OPPOSITION THE MAYOR
AND SUPPORTERS INCLUDING AN
ATTEMPT TO PROVIDE A BIASED
CAPTION
THAT WAS RULED ILLEGAL
FOR YEARS AFTERWARD.
THOSE FOLKS HAVE CONSTANTLY
LAMENTED THE ELECTION RESULTS
AND MANY THE SUPPORTERS HAVE
VOWED FOR YEARS TO OVERTURN IT.
THE PROPERTY IS SUPPOSED TO
PROVIDE BIG DOLLARS AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, THEY SAID.
SOME OF THOSE FOLKS ARE
CURRENTLY ON THE LIBRARY BOARD
AND MANY OTHERS ARE BIG DONORS
TO THE MAYOR AND THE PROP A AND
B CAMPAIGN.
THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL NEVER
PROVIDED THE SUPPORT TYPICALLY
GIVEN TO PROJECTS AND VOTER
INITIATIVES OF THIS SORT LIKE
CITIES IN DETROIT, ROYAL CELINE
CHELSEA FRANKLY IT'S ALWAYS
SOUNDED LIKE SOUR GRAPES AND
NOW RETRIBUTION PARTICULARLY
THE BOGUS ATTEMPT TO COMPARE
WITH THE SKATING STATE PARK
WHICH THE CITY SUPPORTED WITH
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS.
UNLIKE THIS REVISIONIST HISTORY
AND YOU HAD NEVER EVEN SEEN THE
MEMO OF UNDERSTANDING AND
EVERYONE KNOWS THAT THAT'S WHAT
SHOWS THAT CITY SUPPORT IS
NECESSARY TO DRAW BIG DONORS.
FINALLY FOR YEARS ALREADY THE
FOOD TRUCKS WAS A CLASSIC
HATCHET JOB FULL
OF DISINFORMATION SERVE THE
PUBLIC HEARING RELATES TO THE
ZONING OF THE ADJACENT PARCEL.
>> I GET THAT THIS IS ALL
RELEVANT TO THAT.
YOU MIGHT THINK IT IS AND I
THINK IT IS.
PLEASE CONTINUE.
FAST FORWARD TO THE NOVEMBER
TWENTY FOURTH LIBRARY MEETING.
THERE'S A BIG PRESENTATION OF A
REDESIGN OF THE LIBRARY LOT
FOCUSED YOU KNOW OR I'M SORRY
WE WERE DESIGNING THE LIBRARY
NOT THE LIBRARY LOT.
IT FOCUS TOTALLY ON THE ON JUST
THAT OWN PROPERTY AND THE AS TO
THE LIBRARY THE DIRECTOR SAID
WE DON'T MAYBE ANALYZE THAT WE
DON'T OWN OR CONTROL IT
ACCORDING TO THE CITY
ADMINISTRATORS LEADER MEMO, THE
DIRECTOR APPROACHED THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR JUST RIGHT AFTER
THAT AND GOT A MEETING TO
DISCUSS SIX DAYS LATER.
TURNS OUT THE PUBLIC SURVEYS
SAY FOLKS LIKE THE LIBRARY BUT
THEY DON'T NECESSARILY SEE THAT
IT NEEDS WHAT THE DIRECTOR
SAID.
NO SHARED VISION HAS BEEN IN
THE PUBLIC AT ALL OTHER THAN IT
LOOKS LIKE THE LIBRARY IS JUST
GOING TO BE ONE FLOOR SMALLER
THAN WHAT IT IS NOW.
NONE OF THE AMENITIES GLOWINGLY
TOUTED IN THE PRESS RELEASE AND
STAFF AND ARE EVEN IN THE
CHARTER AMENDMENT ABOUT A BILL
OF CAPTIONS.
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO GET A
DOLLAR FOR A PROPERTY THAT WAS
ACCORDING TO EVERYBODY EARLIER
WAS TEN MILLION EUROS THE THE
ELECTION FOR MIDYEAR AUGUST
FOUR LOW TURNOUT AND FINALLY
THIS APPEARS TO ME AND TO MANY
OTHERS IN THE PUBLIC IS JUST A
BAIT AND SWITCH AND THERE IS
VERY LITTLE TRUST HERE EVERY
TIME WE HEAR THIS.
WELL, WE'LL FIX THE DETAILS
LATER.
WE'LL WE'LL PUT TOGETHER A PLAN
CAN'T DO THAT AFTER YOU SOLD IT
LATER.
.
CAN'T DO THAT AFTER YOU SOLD IT
IT'S GONE AND I WOULDN'T
.
SUGGEST THAT THE PUBLIC TRUST
IT'S GONE AND I WOULDN'T
IS OUT THERE ANYMORE AT ALL.
SUGGEST THAT THE PUBLIC TRUST
>> THANK YOU.
IS OUT THERE ANYMORE AT ALL.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO'D LIKE
>> THANK YOU.
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO'D LIKE
?
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
HELLO, I'M STACEY HARPER AND I
?
AM A RESIDENT OF VOID THREE AND
HELLO, I'M STACEY HARPER AND I
I TOO AM URGING YOU TO SUPPORT
AM A RESIDENT OF VOID THREE AND
AGAINST THE REZONING OF THE
I TOO AM URGING YOU TO SUPPORT
LIBRARY PRESIDENT BANABA VOTED
AGAINST THE REZONING OF THE
ON THIS AND THE TWENTY EIGHTEEN
LIBRARY PRESIDENT BANABA VOTED
ELECTION THERE WERE A NUMBERS
ON THIS AND THE TWENTY EIGHTEEN
OF PEOPLE THAT CAME OUT AND
ELECTION THERE WERE A NUMBERS
VOTED AND WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
OF PEOPLE THAT CAME OUT AND
THE CITY CENTER THAT IT HASN'T
VOTED AND WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
BEEN FULLY SUPPORTED WHICH IS
THE CITY CENTER THAT IT HASN'T
WHY IT'S NOT BEEN FUNDED.
BEEN FULLY SUPPORTED WHICH IS
AND I'M HERE TO URGE YOU TO
WHY IT'S NOT BEEN FUNDED.
VOTE WITH WHAT YOUR
AND I'M HERE TO URGE YOU TO
CONSTITUENTS REQUESTED.
VOTE WITH WHAT YOUR
THANK YOU.
CONSTITUENTS REQUESTED.
THANK.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
THANK.
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> GOOD EVENING.
>> I SUGGEST A PROPOSED
REZONING IS A PREMATURE
APPARENTLY THE LIBRARY BOARD IT
AIMS TO DIMINISH ITS PUBLIC AND
THE GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS ON
ITS DOWNTOWN PROPERTY AND
BECOME ON THAT PROPERTY A
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPER AND
LANDLORD WHILE RETAINING ENOUGH
OF A LIBRARY FUNCTION TO RENT
THE PROPERTY FROM REVERTING TO
THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
THE QUESTION ARISES AS A
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPER AND
LANDLORD, WILL THE LIBRARY BE
TREATED ANY DIFFERENTLY THAN
ANY OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTY
OWNER INCLUDING FOR TAX
PURPOSES WHO PAY VARIOUS TAXES
TO THE CITY INCLUDING TAX
INCREMENT TRANSFERS TO THE
COUNTY, TO THE SCHOOLS AND TO
THE LIBRARY ITSELF?
THIS IS THE MOMENT IT STRIKES
TO HAVE THIS DISCUSSION IN
PUBLIC AND TO ARRIVE AT OR
DISCLOSE AN EQUITABLE RESULT
WHILE IT DOES NOT RESULT IN THE
LIBRARY BOARD USING ITS PUBLIC
AND GOVERNMENTAL STATUS TO
SHIELD COMMERCIAL LAND USE FROM
PROPERTY TAX IF BY CHANCE SUCH
A DISCUSSION HAS BEEN HAD IN A
NON PUBLIC FORUM, THIS WOULD BE
A GREAT TIME TO MAKE THAT
ARRANGEMENT PUBLIC.
WHATEVER ARRANGEMENT IS IS
COME
ON THERE WE GO.
>> WHATEVER ARRANGEMENT IS
REACHED REGARDING THE
COMMERCIAL USE OF THIS PUBLIC
LAND IT SEEMS LIKELY TO BE
APPLIED TO THE CENTER OF THE
CITY PARK THAT SEEMS TEED UP TO
BE GIVEN TO THE LIBRARY BOARD
WITH NO STRINGS ATTACHED.
BY THE WAY, AS A FOOTNOTE I
THOUGHT THAT CASH HAD TO BE
EXCHANGED BEFORE TRANSFERRING
PUBLIC SPACES A PARTICULARLY
PARKING RELATED SPACES TO OTHER
ENTITIES, EVEN THOSE THAT ARE A
PART OF CITY GOVERNMENT MAKING
PLAIN AND PUBLIC THE
DISCUSSIONS AND ARRANGEMENTS
REGARDING THE PROPERTY TAX
CONSEQUENCES OF THE NON SALE
CONVERSION OF PUBLIC LAND FOR
COMMERCIAL PURPOSES BEFORE
PERMITTING THESE CONVERSIONS TO
OCCUR WILL ENHANCE THE
CREDIBILITY OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS
AND COULD SAVE THE CITY AND THE
LIBRARY FROM NEEDLESS TIME IN
COURT IN A MORE PERFECT WORLD
THIS LIBRARY REZONING WOULD BE
USED AS PART OF AN EXCHANGE
OF LAND FOR A VASTLY IMPROVED
CENTER OF THE CITY SPACE ON
SOME PORTION OF THE CURRENT
LIBRARY IN EXCHANGE FOR SAY
TOWER PLAZA STYLE ZONING OVER
THE ADJACENT CITY PARKING
GARAGE.
SUCH AN ARRANGEMENT WOULD MEET
A VARIETY OF CIVIC GOALS FROM
PARTIES OTHERWISE AT ODDS A
WELL-DESIGNED PUBLIC PLAZA
WOULD ENHANCE THE LONG TERM
ATTRACTIVENESS OF A DENSELY
DEVELOPED CITY CENTER.
AGAIN, I URGE THE POSTPONEMENT
OF THIS ZONING CHANGE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK
.
I WASN'T SURE IF I SHOULD COME
UP OR NOT.
I WOULD LIKE TO SUPPORT THIS
REZONING.
I LOVE THE LIBRARY AND I THINK
WITH THE WITH THE REZONING THEY
CAN BUILD A BETTER DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY AND I WOULD LOVE TO SEE
THAT A COUPLE OTHER PEOPLE
MENTIONED THE TWO THOUSAND
EIGHTEEN VOTE AND I DON'T KNOW
IF THAT VEERS OFF TOPIC FROM
THIS.
I DON'T I HONESTLY DON'T KNOW
WHICH PARCEL WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
I GET CONFUSED WITH THAT BUT I
VOTED THEY WERE SAYING THAT
PEOPLE VOTED FOR A PARK ON ON
THE PARKING GARAGE AND I DID
VOTE FOR THAT PARK.
I WOULD NOT VOTE LIKE THAT
TODAY.
THAT WAS SEVEN YEARS AGO AND
THE WAY THAT THE LANGUAGE AND
IN THE
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
WORD FOR THAT THE PROCLAMATION
LANGUAGE OR WHATEVER IT WAS
REFERRING WAS VERY MISLEADING.
UH, AND I DON'T THINK IT WAS IT
IT DIDN'T REALLY PRESENT WHAT
THE WORD THEY WANTED TO DO BUT
THEY INTENDED FOR THAT SPACE
AND WE'VE HAD SEVEN YEARS SINCE
THEN THE GROUP THAT REALLY
SPEARHEADED THIS PROJECT FOR
THAT PARCEL WASN'T ABLE TO LIVE
DELIVER ON IT AND HAD DUE
PROCESS IN ALL FAIRNESS AND
THAT AND NOW I'M I'VE JUST
HEARD THE BEGINNINGS OF PLANS
THE NEW DOWNTOWN LIBRARY WHAT I
KNOW ABOUT THE LIBRARY NOW IS
IT'S THREE SEPARATE BUILDINGS
KIND OF GLUED TOGETHER AND
THERE'S A LOT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
PROBLEMS WITH DUE TO THE AGE
OF THE BUILDINGS AND I'D LIKE
THERE TO BE A STRONG DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY THAT ALL RESIDENTS AND
NONRESIDENTS ALIKE CAN USE AND
ENJOY.
IT'S AMAZING ALL THE THINGS YOU
CAN GET AT THE LIBRARY FROM
PUZZLES TO BOOKS TO MICROSCOPES
OR MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND I
THINK IT'S A GREAT PLACE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WHO'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> HELLO MY NAME IS IAN
BANNISTER AND I WOULD URGE YOU
ALL TO VOTE NO
ON THE REZONING
OF THE LIBRARY TONIGHT OR THE
LIBRARY TONIGHT.
THIS REZONING OF THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY FROM PUBLIC LAND TO D
ONE DOWNTOWN CORE SPACES
OUTPOURED DISTRICT IS A BAD
IDEA BECAUSE THE PROPERTY AND
THE PROPERTY IS INTENDED TO BE
REDEVELOPED AS A PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP RATHER THAN AN
ENTIRELY PUBLIC OWNED SITE VOTE
NO BECAUSE THIS PAVES THE WAY
FOR A CITY SPONSORED BALLOT
INITIATIVE TO GO BEFORE VOTERS
IN THE LOW TURNOUT AUGUST
ELECTIONS THIS SUMMER WHEN ONLY
A SMALL FRACTION OF THE
NOVEMBER VOTERS WILL EVEN BE IN
TOWN OR PARTICIPATING.
>> THE CITY'S GOAL HERE IS TO
REVERSE THE VOTER APPROVED
NOVEMBER TWENTY EIGHTEEN
CHARTER AMENDMENT MAKE THE
PARKING LOT NEXT TO THE LIBRARY
INTO A GREEN CIVIC SPACE IN
PERPETUITY RATHER THAN A HIGH
RES HIGH RISE COURTESY
OF COURSE BASIS BUILDERS.
FOR THE PAST FIVE YEARS CITY
OFFICIALS HAVE STALLED AND
REFUSED TO FOLLOW THROUGH ON
THE VOTER APPROVED CENTER
OF THE CITY THAT'S IN OUR CITY
CHARTER AND A DOUBLE PLAY THE
CITY'S NOT ONLY REZONING THE
LIBRARY BUT INTENDS TO SELL THE
PARKING STRUCTURE UNDER THE
LIBRARY LOCK FOR ONLY ONE
DOLLAR.
THIS WILL ENABLE THE LIBRARY TO
SELL BOTH THE PARKING LOT AND
THE LIBRARY ITSELF TO A
DEVELOPER FOR A DORM MEGALITHS
MOGOLLON HUGE HIGH RISE SO A
SMALL SLIVER OF THE STRUCTURES
WILL POSSIBLY BE USED BY THE
LIBRARY POSSIBLY AS SOMETHING
ON THE SECOND FLOOR OR MAYBE
NOT.
DETAILS REMAIN VAGUE OF COURSE
I URGE EVERYONE TO WATCH
ELIZABETH NELSON'S VIDEO THAT
IS ABOUT TWENTY NINE MINUTES
LONG PACKED FULL OF FACTS ABOUT
THE MANY TWISTS AND TURNS AND
EXTRAORDINARY BAD FAITH
OF SEVERAL KEY INDIVIDUALS THAT
COULD RESULT IN THE REVERSING
OF A TWENTY EIGHTEEN VOTER
APPROVED MANDATE.
SO PLEASE VOTE NO ON THIS
REZONING THAT PAVES THE WAY FOR
THESE BAD THINGS TO HAPPEN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
YES MARK YOU CAN ME WELL THIS
IS MARK GERBER TWENTY SEVENTEEN
3RD STREET.
I WANT TO START BY SAYING HOW
MUCH I LOVE OUR PUBLIC LIBRARY
.
THEIR LIBRARY SYSTEM IS AWARD
WINNING AND IT ABSOLUTELY
SHOULD BE THE LIBRARY HOSTS,
YOU KNOW, NOT JUST BOOKS AND
PUZZLES AND GAMES BUT ALSO
BRINGS INCREDIBLE SPEAKERS,
HOSTS, MUSIC CONCERTS, POETS,
ALL KINDS OF PROGRAMING AND
COMMUNITY BUILDING.
>> PEOPLE COME TO THE LIBRARY
FOR STORYTELLING AND TO ENGAGE
WITH ONE ANOTHER AND IT'S
INCREDIBLE SYSTEM RUN BY
INCREDIBLE LIBRARIANS.
UNFORTUNATELY, AS A PREVIOUS
SPEAKER MENTIONED, THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY IS THREE DIFFERENT
BUILDINGS STUFFED INTO A
TRENCHCOAT AND ALL FALLING
APART AND EVEN WORSE IS NOT TOO
LONG AGO IN IOWA VOTERS DECIDED
NOT TO AUTHORIZE ADDITIONAL AN
ADDITIONAL MILLAGE TO SUPPORT
REBUILDING THAT LIBRARY.
>> SO FROM THE LIBRARY'S
PERSPECTIVE, I IMAGINE THE
LIBRARY BOARD SEES AND
COMMUNITY ESTABLISHMENT THAT
EVERYBODY LOVES BUT DOESN'T
WANT TO PAY FOR IT.
>> IN MY MIND THIS REZONING
WILL UNLOCK HOPEFULLY FUNDS TO
MAKE OUR LIBRARY SYSTEM EVEN
BETTER HOPEFULLY WITHOUT HAVING
TO CHARGE EXTRA TAX DOLLARS IN
A PLACE THAT HAS HIGH TAX BILLS
.
>> ALSO BRIEFLY WANT TO MENTION
THE TWENTY EIGHTEEN VOTE ON THE
NEXT PARCEL.
I MOVED AND I AGREE IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN AND WHEN I MOVED HERE
I HEARD THAT THERE IS A
PROPOSAL FOR A DOWNTOWN PARK
AND WHO DOESN'T LOVE PARKS.
SO EVEN THOUGH I CONSIDER
MYSELF AN INFORMED VOTER I
VOTED FOR THAT PARK.
I DIDN'T KNOW THE HISTORY.
I DIDN'T KNOW THAT THE CITY HAD
ALREADY SIGNED AN AGREEMENT TO
BUILD AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO
BUILD MULTIPLE USE SPACES AND A
DEEPLY REGRET THAT VOTE.
>> SO I REALLY HOPE YOU VOTE
TONIGHT TO REZONE MY SPACE TO
BE ONE AND I HOPE YOU CONTINUE
TO SUPPORT OUR INCREDIBLE
LIBRARY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
URGO ALVIS YOU CAN SPEAK GREW
IN ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
MR. MAYOR, CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND CITY STAFF ATTENDING THE
MEETING.
I AM HER ELDEST BUT ALSO KNOWN
AS LOUIS TRAFFICK FROM UPPER
AND LOWER TOWN IN THE FIRST
QUARTER SPEAKING IN STRONG
FAVOR OF THIS RESOLUTION TO
REZONE THE ONE POINT TWO ONE
ACRE PARK WHICH THE PUBLIC
LIBRARY SITS.
>> THIS IS LONG OVERDUE.
I'M GLAD THIS IS HAPPENING.
I AM SO EXCITED TO SEE THAT IF
PROPOSALS A AND B PATH IN
AUGUST AS I WILL BE VOTING FOR
IN THE END THE AFFIRMATIVE AND
I URGE ALL OF MY FELLOW ANN
ARBOR CITIZENS TO VOTE YES ON A
PROPOSAL A AND B IN AUGUST I AM
SO EXCITED TO SEE THE PROSPECTS
AND THE ABILITY FOR THE
ANTHOLOGIST LIBRARY TO EXPLORE
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND
MAKE THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY LOT
AND THE REST OF THAT BLOCK INTO
SOMETHING REALLY POWERFUL AND
EXCITING AND STRONG FOR ANN
ARBOR.
SO I URGE YOU TO VOTE YES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU
.
COLOR ENDING IN THREE, FOUR OR
FIVE PLEASE.
>> PRESS STAR SIX TO A NEW
HELLO THIS IS TEDDY CAN FROM
THE STEPFORD.
I AM ASKING YOU TO VOTE NO I
MYSTERIOSO LET'S BE CLEAR IT'S
RESOLVING IT'S NOT ABOUT A NEW
LIBRARY.
IT IS ABOUT SELLING PUBLIC LAND
TO A PRIVATE DEVELOPER.
>> SURE THERE MIGHT BE A
LIBRARY AND PART OF THE
BUILDING OR THERE MIGHT NOT AND
THERE MIGHT BE SOME PUBLIC
OUTDOOR OPEN SPACE FOR THERE
MIGHT NOT BE A PUBLIC OUTDOOR
OPEN SPACE IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
OVER TWENTY SIX THOUSAND PEOPLE
VOTED TO PUT THE CENTER OF THE
CITY IN A CITY CHARTER AND WE
SUCCEEDED AND IT IS IN A CITY
CHARTER.
THE MAYOR CAMPAIGNED HARD
AGAINST THE CENTER OF THE CITY
AND AFTER THE PEOPLE WON HE
WASN'T HAPPY AND HE REFUSED TO
ACCEPT THE RESULTS OF THAT
ELECTION AND HE PREDICTED THAT
THE CENTER OF THE CITY WOULD
FAIL AND HE DONE EVERYTHING IN
HIS POWER TO MAKE HIS
PREDICTION COME TRUE.
>> ALTHOUGH THE REQUIRED
FUNDING FOR OUR CITY WAS
RAISED, THE MAYOR REFUSED TO
HAVE THE MEMORANDUM
OF UNDERSTANDING SIGNED WHICH
ALLOWED THE WHOLE PROCESS AND
NOW HE'S SAYING THAT THE CITY
HAS FAILED AND HE WANTS ANOTHER
ELECTION TO REMOVE IT FROM THE
CITY CHARTER SO THAT HE CAN
FINALLY SELL PUBLIC LAND TO
PRIVATE DEVELOPER WHEN IN ORDER
TO DO THAT HE FIRST NEEDS TO
GET THE LAND ON WHICH THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY THAT WE DON'T
SO LET'S BE CLEAR THIS IS NOT
ABOUT A NEW LIBRARY.
THIS IS ABOUT A MAYOR WHO
DIDN'T GET HIS WAY WANTING TO
OVERTURN THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE
THE AUGUST SPECIAL ELECTION
WHICH WILL COST THE TAXPAYERS A
LOT OF MONEY.
>> IT'S NOT ABOUT THE NEW
LIBRARY.
>> EVERYONE LOVES LIBRARIES.
IT'S ABOUT WHETHER ELECTIONS
MATTER.
THIS IS FOR DEMOCRACY.
PLEASE VOTE NO ON THIS
REZONING.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
ADAM.
GO AHEAD BY THERE.
THIS IS ADAM GOODMAN SPEAKING
TO YOU FROM THE FIFTH WARD TO
KEEP THIS BRIEF I'M STRONGLY IN
FAVOR OF THIS REZONING PROPOSAL
AND I URGE YOU ALL TO VOTE YES
WITHOUT DELAY AND I THINK THAT
IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT THE LIBRARY
ORGANIZATION HAS DONE OVER
RECENT DECADES, THEY HAVE WITH
THE MILLET'S CREEK PITTSFIELD
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WEST GATE
RANCHES BUILT SOME OF THE MOST
EXCITING SPACES IN THE FIRST
THREE OF THOSE INSTANCES MOST
EXCITING AND
INTERESTING
BUILDINGS THAT OUR COMMUNITY
HAS SEEN IN IN THIS MODERN ERA.
>> AND SO THIS IS AN
ORGANIZATION WITH A PROVEN
TRACK RECORD OF BUILDING
BEAUTIFUL ACCESSIBLE PUBLIC
SPACES THAT SERVE OUR COMMUNITY
INCREDIBLY WELL.
>> SO I'M NOW WHAT'S REALLY
EXCITING ABOUT THIS IDEA IS
THAT WE COULD GET ALL OF THIS
FOR OUR COMMUNITY AND WE COULD
GET SOME PROGRESS TOWARDS
ADDRESSING OUR INCREDIBLY
SERIOUS HOUSING SHORTAGE AND WE
COULD DO ALL OF THIS WITHOUT
RAISING TAXES ON OURSELVES.
>> THIS IS A WIN WIN WIN FOR
OUR COMMUNITY AND I COULD NOT
BE MORE EXCITED FOR IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, ADAM.
GO AHEAD.
HI MY NAME IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
AND I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD.
I FIRST GOT A LIBRARY CARD AT
THE WESTGATE BRANCH I BELIEVE
AS PART OF A FIELD TRIP FROM
PAISLEY ELEMENTARY.
I WAS BORN AND RAISED IN ANN
ARBOR AND GREW UP GOING TO THE
LIBRARY REGULARLY.
THE AWARD WINNING ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY IS A BELOVED
INSTITUTION IN OUR CITY BY ME
AND BY MANY, MANY OTHERS WHO
MAKE USE OF THEIR WONDERFUL
PROGRAMS, COLLECTIONS AND
COMMUNITY GATHERING SPACES.
AS RANKED MOUNTAIN SAID, THE
LIBRARY IS A GROWING ORGANISM.
IT'S THE NEEDS OF OUR COMMUNITY
AND LIBRARY PATRONS AND
COLLECTIONS GROW AND CHANGE.
SO TOO DO THE NEEDS OF THE
BUILDING ITSELF.
WE NEED TO BE READY TO MOVE
FORWARD AND CHANGE WITH THOSE
NEEDS.
FURTHERMORE, OUR DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY BUILDING IS IN POOR
CONDITION AND IS BEYOND ITS
USEFUL LIFE.
>> I WAS DISAPPOINTED IN THE
FAILED BOND MEASURE A FEW YEARS
AGO WHICH WOULD HAVE SOLVED
MANY OF THESE PROBLEMS.
BUT TONIGHT WE HAVE A NEW
OPPORTUNITY TO REPLACE OUR MAIN
LIBRARY BUILDING THIS TIME
WITHOUT ASKING FOR TAXPAYER
MONEY TO DO SO.
IT IS ALSO AN OPPORTUNITY TO
GAIN AN OUTDOOR PARK SPACE NEW
INDOOR COMMUNITY PERFORMANCE
SPACES AND EVEN MUCH NEEDED
HOUSING.
IT'S A WIN WIN WIN WIN.
THIS ZONING CHANGE WILL PROVIDE
THE NECESSARY FLEXIBILITY TO DO
ALL THAT.
I TRUST THE ANABAPTIST LIBRARY
TO DO WHAT THEY SAY THEY WILL
DO WITH APOLOGIES TO THIS BODY
I CONSIDER THEM ARE MOST
TRUSTWORTHY LOCAL INSTITUTION
AND AFTER SEVEN YEARS OF BROKEN
PROMISES AND BAD FAITH, BAD
FAITH ARGUMENTS FROM THE
LIBRARY GREEN CONSERVANCY AND
THE PEOPLE FOR THE PRESERVATION
OF PARKING LOTS IN PERPETUITY
WE NEED TO MOVE ON.
THAT'S WHY I WILL HAPPILY VOTE
IN FAVOR OF PROPOSALS AND IN
AUGUST AND URGE OTHERS TO DO AS
WELL.
PLEASE VOTE YES, BE FOR TONIGHT
AND AND VOTE YES ON A AND B IN
AUGUST.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALEX.
GO AHEAD.
HI THIS IS ALEX LO.
I'VE BEEN RESEARCHING THE
HISTORY OF THIS BECAUSE I
WASN'T HERE FOR EVERYTHING
THAT'S HAPPENED ON THE SITE BUT
I FIND IT TRULY FASCINATING HOW
MUCH VITRIOL THERE IS AGAINST
THE PUBLIC LIBRARY RIGHT NOW
FOR TRYING TO PROVIDE PEOPLE
THEIR LIBRARY SERVICES DOWNTOWN
BACK IN 2012 IT SEEMS THE
LIBRARY KNEW THAT THE DOWNTOWN
BUILDING WAS HAVING ALL SORTS
OF ISSUES AND TRIED TO GET A
BUNCH TO BUILD A NEW ONE AND
THAT FAILED FOR REASONS THAT
HONESTLY ARE UNCLEAR TO ME.
BUT IT DOES SEEM THAT THE
OPPOSITION WHO PROBABLY COULD
HAVE SPENT A BIT MORE TIME IN
THE LIBRARY NOT TO SPELL WOULD
ALSO HAVE DONE AND ALSO SEEM TO
MAKE SOME PRETTY MISLEADING
CLAIMS THEN IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
THE CITY WAS WORKING ON AN
AGREEMENT TO GET A WHOLE LOT
MORE HOUSING NEXT TO THE
LIBRARY AND SAME OPPOSITION
GROUP JUST DECIDED TO
MISLEADINGLY CALL A SURFACE
PARKING LOT A HOT THAT'S QUITE
A QUITE WEIRD.
SO NOW THE SO THAT THE LIBRARY
HAS OFFERED US WHAT IS QUITE
HONESTLY SOMETHING QUITE
AMAZING AND ALL WE ALWAYS NEED
TO DO IS VOTE OUR VOTE FOR IT
AND GET THIS THEY'RE BUILDING
REASON I AM KIND OF SAD THAT
THE D ZONE WILL ONLY ALLOW A
MAXIMUM OF ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY FEET AND HOPEFULLY WE
CAN MAKE THE HEIGHT LIMITS IN
DOWNTOWN HANOVER.
>> BUT YOU KNOW FOR OR FOR ALL
THE WAYS THAT WE'VE BEEN HELD
BACK THE SEEMS LIKE THE BEST
WAY THAT WE HAVE TO MOVE
FORWARD.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK THANK YOU
.
THERE IS NO ONE ELSE WITH THEIR
HANDS RAISED
C NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER FIVE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
THREE ZERO CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE THE CITY
BANABA PUDI MODIFICATIONS IS
THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
NO ONE WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
MEETING MINUTES OF MAY NINETEEN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE.
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THESE MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES WHILE
FAVOR OPPOSED THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED BE1 AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE REZONING OF THREE ACRES
OF WP TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO PLL
PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS PROPERTY THREE
EIGHT ZERO ONE STONE SCHOOL
ROAD MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF BE1 COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
SINCE COUNCIL MEMBER DESH IS
ABSENT SHE WANTS TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE ARE STILL FULLY
INFORMED SO SHE SENT NOTES TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE UNDERSTAND
WHAT EACH OF THESE ARE.
SHE HAS LIAISON TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THOSE WHO ARE
NOT SO JUST LITTLE.
>> JUST BRIEFLY THIS PROPERTY
WAS OFFICIALLY ANNEXED INTO THE
CITY.
REZONING IS NOT AUTOMATIC THIS
ORDINANCE WILL SIT ON THE
PROPERTY FROM PUBLIC AND WAS ON
THIS PROPERTY OF PUBLIC LAND.
THE PROPOSAL IS CONSISTENT WITH
THE ADJACENT ZONING AND
SURROUNDING LAND USES IN THE
CITY'S COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION AT ITS
MEETING ON MAY 21ST.
TWENTY OF THIS OF TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
OF THE REQUEST FOR A DISCUSSION
OR FAVOR OPPOSED IS APPROVED B
TO AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE ZONING REZONING
OF TWO POINT SIXTY FIVE ACRES
FROM T WPT TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO
PLL PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT TO
EIGHT SIX TO ST. SCHOOL ROAD
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER KAZULIN
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF BE2 COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
MOORE NOTES THIS PROPERTY IS
OFFICIALLY ANNEXED INTO THE
CITY AND THE REZONING AS JUST
MENTIONED IS NOT AUTOMATIC.
THIS ORDINANCE WILL REZONE THE
PROPERTY TO THE CLAN DISTRICT.
>> IT'S CONSISTENT WITH THE
ADJACENT ZONING SURROUNDING
LAND USES IN THE CITY'S
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND PLANNING
COMMISSION AND IT'S MAY 21ST
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MEETING
RECOMMENDED APPROVAL OF THE
REQUEST FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
B THREE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF NINE POINT EIGHT
FIVE NINE ACRES FROM R FOR A
MULTIFAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
TO SELL PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT
HICKORY NATURE AREA EXPANSION
REZONING TO THREE TO FIVE
CRISTOL WAY MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER I SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF B THREE COUNCILOR
BRIGGS SO STAFF RECOMMENDS THE
ZONING PETITION BE APPROVED
BECAUSE NOW THAT THE PARCELS
ARE CITY OWNED LAND THE
APPROPRIATE ZONING DESIGNATION
IS PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT.
THIS
AS EXISTING HICKORY NATURE
AREA LAND WAS CONTRIBUTED TO
THE CITY WITH THE DEVELOPMENT
OF NORTH SKY A SITE PLAN
APPROVED IN 2008 AND THE
EXPANSION OF THE PARCEL
CONTAINS NINE POINT EIGHT FIVE
NINE ACRES WAS DONATED TO THE
CITY AS PART OF THE ADJACENT
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT OF 01
PONTIAC TRAIL FORMERLY KNOWN AS
THE ONE NOW KNOWN AS UNIVERSITY
TRAILS WHOSAY PLAN WAS APPROVED
IN 2019.
THE DONATION WAS REVIEWED AND
RECOMMENDED BY THE LAND
ACQUISITION COMMITTEE OF THE
PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION AT ITS
NOVEMBER 29TH, 2012 MEETING.
THERE ARE NO PLANS TO DEVELOP
THIS AREA AS A PARK.
THE REASON THIS TOOK SO LONG IS
THAT THE PAPERWORK SEEMS TO
HAVE BEEN MISPLACED ON THE
CITIES AND DUE TO THE HIGH
VOLUME OF THESE KINDS
OF TRANSACTIONS
.
>> SO JUST A LITTLE BIT
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THAT
AND I'M JUST GOING TO SHARE
ALTHOUGH THIS MAY NOT BE BECOME
OFFICIALLY A PARK I USED TO
LIVE IN THIS AREA ON BROOKSIDE
WHERE THERE IS ANOTHER EXISTING
KIND OF GREENWAY AND MY OLDER
SON AND HIS FRIENDS PLAYED
EXTENSIVELY IN THIS AREA
DRAGGING MANY PIECES OF WOOD
DOWN THAT WAY AND CONCOCTING
MANY PLANS TO ADD BUILDING
BOATS THAT WOULD SOMEHOW MAKE
THEIR WAY TO AFRICA AT SOME
POINT IN TIME AND BUILT A FEW
CAMPFIRES ALONG THE WAY.
SO LAND LIKE THIS CAN BE
INCREDIBLY BENEFICIAL TO THE
FOLKS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER I HAVE A QUESTION THAT I
THINK IS FOR STAFF THERE
AVAILABLE.
IT'S KIND OF A BURBRIDGE
QUESTION.
SO I JUST ASKED I DON'T KNOW
WHO'S ON THE LINE.
I WAS MR. DONIS DESPITE THE
GETTING WAS GOOD.
>> SORRY.
I THINK IT'S PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT'S MORE OF A TERM LIKE I'M
CURIOUS ABOUT THE STATEMENT
THAT IT'S LANDSHARK POSITION
OF THE PARK BUT THERE'S NO
PLANS TO DEVELOP IT THE PARK.
SO MY UNDERSTANDING IS IT'S A
NATURAL AREA THAT'S NOT GOING
TO HAVE I'M JUST TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND THE DISTINCTION.
>> IS IT PARKLAND OR NOT?
WE'LL HAVE SOMEONE ROLLING IN
JUST A SECOND.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANKS, MARIANA
MARIANA, CAN
YOU UNMUTED YOURSELF
?
YES.
CANNADY WE CAN.
SO I I'M NOT SURE EXACTLY WHAT
THE CONFUSION ABOUT WHERE THE
CONFUSION CAME FROM.
THIS LAND HAS BECOME A PARK.
I THINK IT'S JUST NOTHING IS
GOING THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE
ANY NEW TRAILERS PLACED ON IT.
THERE'S GOING TO BE ANY NEW
PARK STRUCTURE.
IT WILL OFFICIALLY BE A PARK.
IT'S OFFICIALLY AN EXPANSION
OF THE HICKORY MAJOR AREA.
THERE'S NO ACTUAL NEW
DEVELOPMENT POST ON THE LAND.
IT'LL JUST REMAIN AS IS AND
WILL BE ON PUBLIC LAND.
BUT THIS OK, THANKS.
>> THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT.
SO IT'S A NATURAL MAINTAIN A
NATURAL AREA.
GOT IT CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED BEFORE
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE REZONING OF ONE
POINT TWO ONE ACRES FROM PUBLIC
LAND DISTRICT TO DAEWON
DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY REZONING THREE FOUR
THREE S FIFTH AVENUE MOVED BY
COUNCILMAN IA SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN RACKMAN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE FOUR COUNCIL
ECKMANN THANK YOU.
>> I ALSO HAVE NOTES FROM
COUNCILMAN BRITISH AND MY OWN
COMMENTARY SO THIS IS THREE
FORTY THREE S FIFTH IT IS THE
PARCEL THAT OUR CURRENT
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY SITS ON AND
THAT SITE ONLY AND THIS IS A
PROPOSAL TO ARIZONA TO D ONE
WHICH WOULD PROCEED REGARDLESS
OF WHAT HAPPENS ON THE BALLOT
IN AUGUST.
THE DOWNTOWN PLAN ANTICIPATES
THE SITE AS DOWNTOWN CORE.
A COUPLE OF ITEMS OF BACKGROUND
AND WHY THE LIBRARY IS ASKING
FOR THIS REZONING SO USE OF THE
ROOMS AT THE LIBRARY ARE UP
THIRTY FOUR PERCENT OVER THE
LAST YEAR.
WE KNOW THAT THE DEMAND FOR THE
LIBRARY IS OUTPACING THE SPACE
THAT THEY HAVE IT.
IT'S NOW BEEN TWO DIRECTORS
TERMS AT LEAST THAT WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THIS THERE WAS AS
HAS BEEN MENTIONED ALREADY IN
PUBLIC COMMENT TWENTY TWELVE
PLANS THAT FAILED AND SO
THEY'VE BEEN LOOKING FOR OTHER
WAYS TO REFUND THE REBUILD
SINCE THE COMMUNITY SAID NO TO
PAYING ADDITIONAL TAXES FOR
THAT.
SO THERE ARE OTHER CITIES THAT
ARE BUILDING HOUSING ON TOP
OF BRANCH LIBRARIES.
SO THIS IS NOT UNPRECEDENTED.
I ALSO WANT TO DO ADDRESS
SOMEONE COMMENTED STOP THIS
FROM ALL THE BAD THINGS
HAPPENING.
HERE'S THE BAD THINGS THAT ARE
HAPPENING A NEW LIBRARY TO
ACCOMMODATE INCREASED PUBLIC
USE SPACE THAT CAN ACCOMMODATE
THE VAST NEEDS OF THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY, NEW PUBLIC SPACE THAT
MEETS THE NEEDS OF MORE PEOPLE
THAT ARE GOING TO BE DOWN IN
THAT SPACE.
WE HAVE AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT GOING THERE, A
COMMERCIAL USE THAT IS ABOVE
THE LIBRARY WOULD BE TAXABLE.
SO THIS POTENTIALLY IF A MIXED
USE DEVELOPMENT WORKS OUT, IT
CREATES A PARCEL THAT IS
TAXABLE.
I WOULD ALSO JUST LIKE TO POINT
TO THE TRUST AND THE SUCCESS
THAT OUR PUBLIC LIBRARY HAS
BUILT WITH THIS COMMUNITY.
THEY HAVE REDEVELOPED MULTIPLE
BRANCHES.
THESE ARE BEAUTIFUL EXAMPLES
OF PUBLIC SPACES THAT MEET
CONTEMPORARY NEEDS.
I HAVE NO REASON TO THINK THAT
THIS WON'T DO IT TOO.
I KNOW THAT THE FIRST PRIORITY
OF THE LIBRARY IS BUILDING A AN
OUTSTANDING SPACE.
SO AS FOR CLAIMS THAT THIS IS
JUST GOING TO BE A SLIVER OF A
LIBRARY, NO, THEIR MAIN
OBJECTIVE IS TO KEEP THE
PROPERTY BUILD A LIBRARY ON IT.
THE BUILDERS NEEDS ANY PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT THAT'S ABOVE THE
LIBRARY.
YOU KNOW THAT HAPPENS ON TOP
OF IT WILL BE THE LIBRARY
HAVING MET ALL OF ITS NEEDS
PLANNING COMMISSION, THE
LIBRARY DIRECTOR WAS ASKED
POINT BLANK WHETHER THE
LIBRARY'S INTENT IS TO REZONE
AND SELL AND HE RESPONDED
DIRECTLY IT IS NOT THEY WANT TO
BE DOWNTOWN.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO POINT TO THE
FACT THAT THERE'S NOTHING TO
STOP THEM FROM SELLING THE SITE
RIGHT NOW.
THEIR LIBRARY COULD APPROVE IT
AND THEY COULD SELL IT.
SO DOES NOT THE ZONING
DESIGNATION THAT IS STOPPING
AND ONE IS COMPLETELY
CONSISTENT.
>> SO LOOKING FORWARD TO
SUPPORTING THIS FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
THANK YOU.
I KNOW THAT COUNCILMAN RACKMAN
KIND OF SUMMED UP A LOT OF WHAT
I WANTED TO SAY SOUNDS A LITTLE
HESITANT BUT BUT I THINK YOU
KNOW, I ALSO WANT TO JUMP IN
AND JUST I I HEARD A LOT
OF COMMENTS DURING THE PUBLIC
HEARING THAT I THINK ARE WORTH
ADDRESSING AND YOU KNOW,
UNFORTUNATELY WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ZONING THE CURRENT
LIBRARY PROPERTY WHERE THE
CURRENT BUILDING RESIDES AND I
THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF DISCUSSION HAPPENING RIGHT
NOW RELITIGATION OF WHAT COULD
OR SHOULD OR HASN'T HAPPENED AT
THE LIBRARY LANE PROPERTY NEXT
DOOR, THE PARKING LOT THAT
CURRENTLY EXISTS THERE THAT WAS
SUBJECT TO THE TWENTY EIGHTEEN
BALLOT PROPOSAL AND SO, YOU
KNOW, ON THE MERITS OF THIS
EVENING, YOU KNOW, I THINK
WE'VE HEARD EXTENSIVELY FROM
THE LIBRARY SYSTEM WHAT THEIR
HOPES AND DREAMS ARE FOR A
DOWNTOWN BRANCH THAT CAN SERVE
NOT JUST THE COMMUNITY AS IT
EXISTS TODAY BUT THE COMMUNITY
INTO THE FUTURE AS WELL.
IF YOU SPEAK TO ANY LIBRARY
TRUSTEE THEY WILL SPEAK WITH
SIGNIFICANT PRIDE ABOUT WHAT
THEY DREAM THIS SPACE TO BE AND
HOW THEY CAN BE A MODEL FOR
OTHER DOWNTOWN LIBRARIES AROUND
THE COUNTRY.
IT WAS A LITTLE WILD TO ME TO
HEAR KIND OF CONSPIRACY TONIGHT
THAT THIS REZONING MEANS THAT A
LIBRARY MAY NOT EXIST IN THE
FUTURE BECAUSE I THINK ANYBODY
WHO SPEAKS TO ANYONE CONNECTED
TO LIBRARY KNOWS THAT THAT'S
SIMPLY NOT TRUE.
IT'S A FEAR TACTIC AND SO, YOU
KNOW, I AM REALLY PROUD OF OUR
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
I'M REALLY PROUD OF OUR LIBRARY
SYSTEM.
WE HEARD SOMEBODY ELSE SAY
THAT, YOU KNOW, THEY'RE THEY'RE
THE THE BEST PUBLIC BODY IN
TOWN.
YOU KNOW, WE CAN GO TOE TO TOE
WITH THEM BUT YOU KNOW, I'M
VERY PROUD OF THEM AS WELL AND
THINK THAT THEY'RE A GREAT
PUBLIC BODY THAT WARRANT TRUST
AND I PLAN ON SUPPORTING THIS
TONIGHT.
AS FOR ALL THAT ARE KIND
OF TALKING ABOUT WHAT COULD OR
SHOULD BE ON THE PARCEL NEXT
DOOR, I THINK THAT'S A
CONVERSATION FOR ANOTHER DAY.
BUT I WILL SAY THAT WHAT I'M
HEARING OUT OF THE LIBRARY IS
SOMETHING ABOUT A VISION FOR A
PUBLIC SPACE INCLUDING OUTDOOR
PUBLIC SPACE THAT ACTUALLY
PROBABLY ACCOMPLISHES A LOT
OF WHAT PROPONENTS OF THE
BALLOT PROPOSAL FROM TWENTY
EIGHTEEN ENVISIONED IN THAT
SPACE.
BUT THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY IS
ACTUALLY PUTTING TOGETHER A
PLAN AND A FUNDING MODEL TO
ACHIEVE IT.
AND SO I'M REALLY PROUD OF THE
WORK THAT LIBRARY IS DOING AND
I'M PROUD TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT FOR THEIR DISCUSSION.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER BARRY JUST
WANTED TO ALSO THROW IN MY MY
SUPPORT.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO BE
SUPPORTING THIS REZONING
TONIGHT.
>> THIS IS WHEN VOTERS MADE THE
DECISION NOT TO SUPPORT FUNDING
FOR A NEW DOWNTOWN BRANCH.
YOU KNOW, THAT PUT THE LIBRARY
IN A DIFFICULT POSITION IN
TERMS OF HOW TO MEET THE NEEDS
OF THE COMMUNITY AND THEY HAVE
SPENT A LOT OF TIME LOOKING AT
ASSESSING THOSE NEEDS, DOING
THEIR DUE DILIGENCE, DOING AND
ALL THAT INFORMATION IS IS
READILY AVAILABLE ON THE
DISTRICT LIBRARY'S WEBSITE.
>> IT'S EXCITING THAT THIS
PAVES THE WAY FOR THIS REZONING
FOR A NEW LIBRARY ON THAT SITE
AND AND ALSO POTENTIALLY FOR A
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT.
THIS IS THE EXCITING AND
INNOVATIVE PROJECTS THAT WE'RE
SEEING IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY AND TO SEE SOMETHING
LIKE THAT COME HERE TO ANN
ARBOR WITH A TRUSTED PARTNER,
ONE THAT HAS AS FOLKS I'VE
MENTIONED SUCH A TRACK RECORD
OF PRODUCING REALLY HIGH
QUALITY BUILDINGS AND EVENT
SPACES FOR OUR COMMUNITY.
I THIS CAN'T COME SOON ENOUGH
FOR ME SO THANKS FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION FOR MY
PART I AM INCREDIBLY EXCITED
ABOUT THE PROSPECT OF NEW
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
I'M GRATEFUL FOR THE LIBRARY
FOR BRINGING FORWARD THE ASKING
FOR THIS REZONING, HAVING A
DO
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY WHETHER AT
THIS PARCEL OR COMBINED WITH
THE NEXT DOOR PARCEL IN
CONNECTION WITH MIXED INCOME
HOUSING POTENTIALLY PUBLIC OPEN
SPACE IF THE NEXT DOOR PARCEL
IS UTILIZED AND THEN TO PERFORM
IN SPACES AND MEETING SPACES IT
ALL WITHOUT WITHOUT NEW TAXES
GIVES THE LIBRARY AN
OPPORTUNITY TO MEET SO MANY
DIFFERENT COMMUNITY GOALS IN A
WAY THAT WELL THAT WILL BE
OUTSTANDING.
THE LIBRARY HAS A PROVEN TRACK
RECORD OF EXCELLENCE WHEN IT
COMES TO BUILDING NEW
LIBRARIES, BUILDING NEW
STRUCTURES, ENVISIONING SPACES
IN WHICH MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
ARE WELCOME AND CAN UTILIZE THE
SERVICES THAT THE LIBRARY HAS
TO OFFER.
IT'S AN EXCITING PROSPECT AND
IT IS ANOTHER STEP WITH THIS
REZONING AND I'M GRATEFUL FOR
THE LIBRARY FOR BRINGING IT
FORWARD AND EXCITED TO SUPPORT
FURTHER DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED B5 AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
THREE ZERO OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE
CODE IN THE CITY THAN ARBOR
DENHA MODIFICATIONS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN SECONDED
BY COUNCILOR WATSON DISCUSSION.
>> PLEASE GIVE ME FIVE COUNCIL
BRACKMAN.
THANK YOU.
UM SO THIS WOULD BE A CHANGE TO
PUDI.
THERE'S BEEN SEVERAL EXAMPLES
OVER RECENT YEARS PUDI ZONING
DISTRICTS BEING RESTRICTED FROM
EVOLUTION OR MODIFICATION BASED
ON PROVISIONS OF THE CITY
CODE THAT REQUIRE REQUIRE ALL
OWNERS WITH A PROPERTY INTEREST
TO SUBMIT OR APPROVE ANY
PROPOSED MODIFICATION.
WHILE THIS UNANIMITY STANDARD
IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE INITIAL
CONSIDERATION OF A DISTRICT
WHEN EXTENDED TO MODIFICATIONS
OF THE ZONING IT GIVES
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY OWNERS A
VETO POWER OVER THE ABILITY
OF OTHERS TO PURSUE
MODIFICATIONS TO THE ZONING
OF THEIR OWN PROPERTY.
THE ATTACHED CHANGE INITIATED
BY STAFF WOULD PROPOSE THAT ANY
LANDOWNER OR CONDOMINIUM OWNERS
ASSOCIATION WOULD HAVE THE
ABILITY TO SEEK PEDIMENT
BIFURCATIONS AS IT RELATES TO
THEIR LOT.
THIS, FOR EXAMPLE, WOULD
CLEARLY ENABLE A LANDOWNER TO
SEEK REMOVAL OF THEIR PERSONAL
FROM A PDS ZONING DISTRICT
WHERE PREVIOUSLY ESTABLISHED A
NOTE THAT THIS CHANGE HAS NO
EFFECT ON THE CITY'S
LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY TO ACT
UPON ANY REQUEST HAVING TO DO
WITH THE CHANGE TO THE ZONING.
SO ANY REQUEST BY ANY LANDOWNER
FOR A PUDI MODIFICATION FOR
THEIR OWN LAND WOULD STILL COME
TO CITY COUNCIL FOR APPROVAL OR
THE DISCUSSION OF EVER POST IT
IS APPROVED
.
SEE WHAT AN ORDINANCE TO ADD
SECTIONS EIGHT FIVE THREE THREE
THROUGH EIGHT FIVE FOUR ZERO
OF CHAPTER ONE ZERO FIVE
HOUSING CODE OF TITLE EIGHT
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN EVERY
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRIS
AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
ONE COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S
THANKS AS LIAISON TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION SINCE ONLY TWENTY I
WANTED TO PROVIDE A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND ON THIS ORDINANCE
AND SPEND A DISCUSSION AT
ENERGY COMMISSION FOR FOR QUITE
SOME TIME NOW EVEN PRECEDING
ME.
SO WHEN CONSIDERING THIS
ORDINANCE IT'S IMPORTANT TO
KNOW THAT FIRST AND FOREMOST
THE GREEN RENTAL HOUSING
ORDINANCE AS A CONSUMER
PROTECTION ORDINANCE THAT WOULD
SET A MINIMUM BASELINE FOR
HEALTH COMFORT AND ENERGY
EFFICIENCY.
YOU MAY KNOW THAT HERE IN
MICHIGAN WE DIDN'T HAVE AN
ENERGY CODE PRIOR TO NINETEEN
SEVENTY SEVEN AND THE MEDIAN
YEAR BUILT FOR RENTAL UNITS IN
ANN ARBOR IS NINETEEN SIXTY
FOUR WITH SOME DATING BACK TO
THE EIGHTEEN FIFTIES.
AND WHILE MANY OF OUR RENTAL
UNITS WERE WELL BUILT AND AND
WELL MAINTAINED OUR WELL
MAINTAINED THIS IS NOT
UNIFORMLY TRUE.
SO RENTALS UNITS ACCOUNT FOR
ABOUT 55 PERCENT OF OUR HOUSING
STOCK AND IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
THEY CAN ALL MEET MINIMUM
STANDARDS TO COMPLY.
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT HOW YOU MEET
THIS THIS THIS ORDINANCE TO
COMPLY WITH A PROPOSED GREEN
RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM.
EACH RENTAL UNIT WILL NEED TO
ACHIEVE A QUALIFYING ASSET
RATING.
THERE ARE TWO PATHWAYS TO
ACHIEVING A QUALIFYING ASSET
RATING.
ONE IS THROUGH THE HOME ENERGY
RATING SYSTEM PATHWAY AND THE
SECOND IS A CHECKLIST PATHWAY.
THE HOME ENERGY RATING SYSTEM.
THE HERR'S PATHWAY IS THE
SIMPLEST WAY TO ACHIEVE A
QUALIFYING ASSET RATING.
UNDER THIS PATHWAY A LANDLORD
WOULD OBTAIN A HOME ENERGY
RATING SYSTEM ASSESSMENT FOR
EACH UNIT AND AS LONG AS THE
HOME ENERGY RATING SCORES 110
OR BELOW THE UNIT WILL BE
COMPLIANT.
THIS ORDINANCE HAS BEEN IN
DEVELOPMENT FOR MANY YEARS AND
MANY STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGED IN
THE DEVELOPMENT.
THE TASK FORCE WAS COMPRISED
OF RENTERS, LANDLORDS, LOW
INCOME HOUSING REPRESENTATIVES
,CITY DEPARTMENTS, LANDLORDS
REPRESENTED THE WASH NOT AREA
APARTMENT ASSOCIATION HOUSING
SINGLE FAMILY RENTALS MULTIUNIT
COMPLEXES TENANTS REPRESENTED
THE TENANTS UNION, THE INTER
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL, GRADUATE
EMPLOYEES ORGANIZATION, HOUSING
CAUCUS AND INDIVIDUAL RENTERS.
>> SO WHILE GREEN RENTAL
HOUSING ORDINANCES ARE STILL AN
INNOVATIVE AND BEST PRACTICE
WORDS, WE'RE NOT THE FIRST ANN
ARBOR IS FORTUNATE TO BE ABLE
TO LEARN FROM OTHER COMMUNITIES
COMMUNITIES LIKE BOULDER THAT
ARE SIMILAR TO OURS THAT HAVE
IMPLEMENTED SIMILAR ORDINANCES
AND SO WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO STUDY
THOSE IMPACTS.
AND SO I KNOW ONE OF THE
CONCERNS THAT FOLKS HAVE RAISED
ABOUT THIS IS AROUND IMPACT ON
SORT OF HOUSING AFFORDABILITY
AND WHAT HAS BEEN FOUND IS THAT
THE RENTS DID NOT CREASE IN
THOSE SPACES SO AS I MENTIONED,
ENERGY COMMISSION HAS BEEN
ENGAGED FOR A LONG TIME ON THIS
ON THIS ISSUE AND IN 2022 THE
ENERGY COMMISSION EXPRESSED ITS
SUPPORT FOR DRAFT
RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGAIN IN
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
I KNOW THE RENTERS COMMISSION
HAS ALSO BEEN ENGAGED
REPEATEDLY AND FINALLY THE
ORDINANCE HAS RECEIVED
EXTENSIVE LEGAL REVIEWS.
SO I'M REALLY GRATEFUL FOR THAT
COLLABORATIVE APPROACH THAT'S
BEEN TAKEN ON THIS AND ASIDE
FROM THEIR DEVELOPMENT AND
THEIR DILIGENCE WITH WITH JUST
REACHING OUT TO SO MANY FOLKS
AND IN FACT THEY'VE ALREADY
PRODUCED A CITY WEBSITE
TAILORED TO RENTERS AND
LANDLORDS WITH LOTS
OF RESOURCES AND INFORMATION.
SO I'M EXCITED TO SUPPORT THIS
AT FIRST READING AND I HOPE YOU
WILL DO SO.
>> HARRISON THANK YOU.
MAYOR.
I WANT TO START BY SAYING I
SUPPORT THE PURPOSE OF THIS
ORDINANCE REDUCING
CARBON EMISSIONS IS URGENT AND
RENTERS ESPECIALLY THOSE IN
OLDER HOUSE HOUSING STOCK
DESERVE HEALTHY ENERGY
EFFICIENT HOMES.
BUT HOW WE IMPLEMENT THIS
MATTERS ESPECIALLY IN THE
MIDDLE OF A HOUSING CRISIS.
I HAVE PUT FORTH AMENDMENTS AS
SHOWN IN THE DOCUMENT ENTITLED
REVISED PROPOSED AMENDMENTS BY
SAM HARRISON.
BUT FROM THAT DOCUMENT I'M ONLY
GOING TO MOVE ONE TONIGHT AND
THAT IS AMENDMENT NUMBER SIX SO
I COULD MR. JACKY'S AND SHE CAN
CIRCULATE IT.
I'LL DO THAT TO SARAH.
OH SORRY SARAH.
SARAH LOWNESS JACK YOU OVER
THERE YOU JUST WE JUST ALL
THINK OF JACKIE EQUALS CLERC
YEAH SHE IS SHE'S THE PLATONIC
CLERK.
ALL RIGHT THAT IS JUST SENT
CAN
I CONTINUE PLEASE.
SO THAT AMENDMENT WOULD REQUIRE
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO ISSUE
A WRITTEN DECISION ON ANY
WAIVER APPEAL WITHIN 30 DAYS.
NO FINES WOULD OCCUR WHILE THIS
APPEAL IS WHILE THE APPEAL
PENDING IF THE APPEAL IS
DENIED, FYNES WOULD BEGIN FROM
THE DATE OF THE DECISION NOT
RETROACTIVELY.
>> IS THERE A SECOND IS THERE A
SECOND FOR THE OH OK.
>> I
SECOND BY COUNCILOR GARCIA
YOU STILL STOLE THE FLOOR.
OK, UM SO IF THE APPEAL IS
DENIED WOULD BEGIN FROM THE
DATE OF THE DECISION THAT
RETROACTIVELY IT'S A SMALL
CLARIFICATION BUT IT MATTERS IF
WE'RE GOING TO OFFER AN APPEAL
PROCESS PEOPLE SHOULDN'T BE
PENALIZED JUST FOR USING IT.
>> ALSO THIS HOPEFULLY IT'S
FRIENDLY TO THE BODY.
THIS WAS STAFF DID SEND THE
EMAILED RESPONSES TO THE
AMENDMENTS AND THIS WAS ONE
THAT THEY WERE FINE WITH
BARRING ANY CONCERNS FROM LEGAL
SO THAT WAS ANTICIPATING THE
QUESTION.
THERE WAS NO CONCERN.
OK, CAN I CONTINUE PLEASE?
ALL RIGHT.
UM, SO FROM THE REMAINING
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS I'VE BECOME
AWARE OF STAFF'S RESPONSES TO
MANY OF THE QUESTIONS SEE THE
AMENDMENTS THAT I PROPOSED.
SO TONIGHT I AM ASKING THAT
ADMINISTRATOR TONY AND DR
STULTS MAKE THOSE STAFF
RESPONSES PUBLIC BY THE NEXT
COUNCIL MEETING IT WAS TOO LATE
TO HAVE THEM MAKE THEM PUBLIC
FOR THIS EVENING.
BUT IF THEY COULD MAKE THOSE
RESPONSES PUBLIC THAT WOULD BE
GREAT THAT OK.
UM SO CONTINUING ON BECAUSE
WHILE I'M ONLY MOVING ONE
AMENDMENT I HAVE HEARD FROM
TENANTS AND LANDLORDS WHO ARE
DOING THEIR BEST WITHIN THEIR
BUDGETS MANY USING EXISTING
PROGRAMS OR SITTING ON WAIT
LISTS BUT FINDING THOSE EFFORTS
DON'T ALWAYS COUNT TOWARDS
COMPLIANCE UNDER THE CHECKLIST
THE DISCONNECT CAN BE
DISCOURAGING AND IN SOME CASES
CREATES A REAL SENSE OF FEAR,
PARTICULARLY AMONG TENANTS WHO
ARE CONCERNED OR WORRIED ABOUT
RISING COSTS ARE BEING PUSHED
OUT.
>> IS THIS JUST ON THE
AMENDMENT?
THIS IS NO.
IT'S MORE THAN JUST THE
REASONING FOR YEAH.
ASKING FOR THOSE RESPONSES TO
BE QUITE ALL RIGHT.
>> WE SHOULD WE SHOULD PROBABLY
CONTINUE WITH THE AMENDMENT
PROCESS.
>> RIGHT PLEASE.
OK, YEAH.
IS THERE ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON THE AMENDMENT FRIENDLY ABODY
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO HEAR IF DR
STULTZ MIGHT BE ABLE TO JUST
SPEAK A LITTLE BIT TO THIS
AMENDMENT THAT WOULD BE JUST
HELPFUL.
THANKS EVERYONE.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN.
>> YES WE WE SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT IS THE AMENDMENT
FINALLY THE BODY APPEARS
FRIENDLY FRIENDLY.
COUNCILOR HARRISON, YOU STILL
GET MORE WITH RESPECT TO THE
MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED.
>> OK, SO I DID FEEL THE DOCTOR
IS ON LINE.
I JUST KIND OF WANTED TO ASK
DOCTOR BOTH TO SPEAK TONIGHT A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT HOW THIS
ORDINANCE IS BEING IMPLEMENTED
IN A WAY THAT AVOIDS
DISPLACEMENT AND WHAT FORMS
OF ASSISTANCE ARE CURRENTLY
AVAILABLE TO BOTH LANDLORDS
TENANTS, WHAT PREPARATION HAS
BEEN DONE AND WHAT CAN PEOPLE
EXPECT GOING FORWARD?
SEE IF SHE COULD SPEAK TO THAT
A LITTLE IT ABSOLUTELY.
>> WELL THANKS VERY MUCH,
COUNCILOR HARRISON AND TO THE
CITY COUNCIL FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY A FEW OF THE THINGS
THAT WE ALREADY HAVE IN MOTION
INCLUDE WE HAVE FUNDING REBATES
ALREADY AVAILABLE FOR OUR
HOUSING FOR SOME MULTIFAMILY
NOT ALL MULTIFAMILY.
SO RIGHT NOW SMALL LANDLORDS IN
PARTICULAR CAN ALREADY GET
REBATE DOLLARS TO HELP MAKE
IMPROVEMENTS.
>> WE ARE ALSO WORKING ON A
LARGER REBATE PROGRAM.
WE'VE BEEN IN DISCUSSION KIND
OF IN THE SAME WAY WITH
DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS TO PILOT
REALLY UNDERSTAND WHAT THEIR
NEEDS ARE AT SCALE SO WE CAN
FIGURE OUT HOW THE FUNDING CAN
GO AS FAR AND BE AS IMPACTFUL
AS POSSIBLE FOR AN EXTENDED
REBATE PROGRAM REALLY LOOKING
AT OUR LARGER MULTIFAMILY SITES
HERE SO THAT'S SOMETHING WE'RE
DOING WITHIN OUR OWN BUDGET AND
OUR OWN REBATE PROGRAM IN
ADDITION, WITH THE SIGNING
OF OUR FRANCHISE WE ALSO
SECURED AN ADDITIONAL HALF
MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR FROM DTI
AND THAT'S THE FLOOR NOT THE
CEILING TYPE TO ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND RENTAL UNITS.
WE'RE KICKING OFF OUR GROUP TO
UNDERSTAND EXACTLY WHAT THAT
LOOKS LIKE SO IT'LL BE
ADDITIONAL DOLLARS ON TOP
OF THE REBATES THAT WE'RE
OFFERING TO HELP INCENTIVIZE
AND THEN IT'S COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S NOTED WE'VE ALREADY SET
UP SOME EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS.
WE HAVE SOME WEBSITES THAT ARE
AVAILABLE.
>> WE HAVE TABLETS FOR THINGS
IN THE CHECKLIST TO MAKE THIS
IS EASY AS POSSIBLE FOR PEOPLE
TO ACCUMULATE POINTS SHOULD
THEY CHOOSE THAT HALFWAY AND IF
THEY CHOOSE THE HERS PATHWAY WE
ARE WORKING WITH SOME TRAINERS
RIGHT NOW TO GET MORE ASSESSORS
IN THE FIELD INCLUDING POSSIBLY
FUNDING THOSE ASSESSMENTS FOR
INDIVIDUALS WHO WANT TO CHOOSE
THAT PATHWAY TO LOWER BARRIERS
TO TO FOLLOWING THROUGH AND
COMPLYING WITH HER EFFORT.
THAT'S A DIFFERENT ONE
COMPLYING WITH GREEN RENTAL
HOUSING.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
,COUNCILOR ACTING.
>> WELL, WE HAVE DOCTORS TOLD
FROM WIFE AND I JUST HAD A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW
THIS GETS ROLLED OUT.
SO MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT IT
TAKES EFFECT PRETTY SHORTLY
AFTER IT PASSES.
BUT WILL PEOPLE JUST HAVE TO
MEET THIS AND THE CYCLE OF WHEN
THEY'RE RENTAL LICENSE GETS
RENEWED OR KIND OF HOW DOES
THAT WORK?
>> YEAH, THAT'S THAT'S EXACTLY
RIGHT.
WE HAVE A PHASE IN APPROACH
WHERE THE BAR IS ACTUALLY LOWER
FOR YOUR FIRST CYCLE SO YOU
HAVE TIME IT'S A SEVENTY POINT
CYCLE FOR THE CHECKLIST THAT
YOU WOULD HAVE TO ACHIEVE AND
THEN YOUR SECOND TIME THROUGH
YOU'VE GOT TO HIT THE ONE
HUNDRED AND TEN MARK THAT'S IN
THE CHECKLIST.
>> SO THAT GIVES DEPENDING ON
WHERE YOU ARE IN THE CYCLE THAT
COULD BE THREE AND A HALF YEARS
TO GET OR IT COULD ACTUALLY BE
UP TO SIX YEARS IF YOU JUST
WENT THROUGH THE CYCLE BEFORE
YOU HAVE TO HIT A FULL
COMPLIANCE.
>> SO THE SHORTEST AMOUNT
OF TIME WHAT WOULD BE THE
SHORTEST AMOUNT OF TIME THAT
YOU HAVE THE I'M GOING TO ASK
JOE TO GRAB THAT BECAUSE I AM
THINKING ABOUT MATH IN MY HEAD
A LITTLE SLOWLY.
>> SO JOE, ARE YOU HERE
AMERICAN HERE?
>> YES WE CAN YES.
SO FOR THE FIRST COMPLIANCE
PERIOD WITH THE CHECKLIST ON
THAT 70 POINTS THAT WOULD
HAPPEN WITHIN AFTER THAT SIX
MONTH PERIOD.
>> SO IF SOMEONE HAS THEIR
INSPECTION ON THAT DATE
SCHEDULED FOR SIX MONTHS OR SIX
MONTHS THE DAY AFTER THAT,
THAT'S THE FIRST TIME IT COULD
COME INTO EFFECT TO THREE YEARS
TO FULL COMPLIANCE WITH THE
CORRECT YES.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION
FROM MY
PART.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THIS MOVING
FORWARD.
IT'S I THINK ANOTHER GREAT STEP
BY BIOCIDE TO HELP FOCUS OUR
COMMUNITIES FOCUS OUR
COMMUNITIES EFFORTS TOWARDS
ACCOMPLISHING OUR
CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS.
WE ALL KNOW THAT ENERGY
EFFICIENCY IS A CRUCIAL PART
OF THAT EFFORT.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT IT IS YOU
KNOW, FOLKS HAVE SELF
DETERMINATION WHEN THEY OWN
PROPERTY BUT THEY DON'T WHEN
THEIR TENANTS.
>> THIS IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
FOR US TO TO WORK WITH
LANDLORDS IN ORDER TO HAVE
THEIR PROPERTIES HAVING
INCREASED ENERGY EFFICIENCY FOR
THE BENEFIT OF US ALL BUT
CERTAINLY TO FOR THE BENEFIT
OF ANYONE PAYING FOR UTILITIES
AND CERTAINLY THE COMFORT AND
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF THE
TENANTS.
>> SO THIS IS A GREAT GOOD
THING.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED.
SEE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
SECTION ONE TWO THREE SEVEN IF
CHAPTER EIGHT ORGANIZATIONS,
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS OF THE
CITY CODE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER NOW AND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF SETU COUNCIL MEMBER
ALEC THANK YOU.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
COMBINATION OF THE ENERGY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSIONS INTO
ONE COMMON SUSTAINABILITY
COMMISSION HAS LARGELY BEEN DUE
TO HOW THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATIONS HAS CHANGED OVER
THE YEARS.
OCI OR CLIMATE RELATED STAFF
GENERALLY LARGELY DID NOT EXIST
WHEN BOTH OF THESE COMMISSIONS
CAME INTO BEING SO THE
EXPERTIZE ON THE COMMISSIONS
WAS ALL CITY COUNCIL HAD TO
RELY ON AT THE TIME WHEN IT
CAME TO ENERGY OR ENVIRONMENTAL
TOPICS.
>> TODAY AS WE KNOW OCI IS A
ROBUST OFFICE THAT WORKS ON AND
COVERS MANY OF THE TOPICS
PREVIOUSLY DISCUSSED AND
BROUGHT INTO THE PUBLIC
DISCOURSE BY THE COMMISSIONS
OVER THE YEARS ONSIDES RISE
SOMEWHAT RELEGATED TO
COMMISSIONS TO INFORMATIONAL
PRESENTATIONS AT THEIR MONTHLY
MEETINGS RATHER THAN DISCUSSION
OR DEBATE ON TOPICS THAT
FURTHER INFORMED CITY POLICIES.
>> FEEDBACK FROM OUTGOING
COMMISSIONERS ON THESE TWO
COMMISSIONS IN RECENT YEARS
FREQUENTLY ASKED FOR REFORM
THAT WOULD LEAD TO MORE
RELEVANCE.
>> THE NEW SUSTAINABILITY
COMMISSION WILL STILL COVER A
LOT OF THE SAME TOPICS AS THE
PREVIOUS TWO SEPARATE
COMMISSIONS BUT IN A REFOCUSSED
WAY GUIDED BY AN ANNUAL WORK
PLAN THAT WILL SET UP SUB
WORKING GROUPS WITHIN THE
LARGER SUSTAINABILITY
COMMISSION AS A REPRESENTATIVE
CURRENTLY ON BOTH THE ENERGY
AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSIONS,
WE'VE HAD A LOT OF DISCUSSION
OVER THE PAST FEW MONTHS ABOUT
THIS COMBINATION AND BASED ON A
LOT OF THE FEEDBACK I'VE GOTTEN
FROM CURRENT AND PAST
COMMISSIONERS, I WILL BE VOTING
IN FAVOR OF THIS TONIGHT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE CITY
BANABA AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AGREEMENT FOR SIX 616 EAST
WASHINGTON MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN
SACKED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC ONE IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED.
>> DO YOU HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF A CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
NO THANK YOU MR.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS.
WE HAVE A MOTION DUE TO THE
CORRECT SUPPORT MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT OR FAVOR OR OPPOSE IT
IS APPROVED ARE OUR
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO PART
OF OUR CITY TURNING GOOD LORD.
>> NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
ALL RIGHT.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOWN, WE HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRING MY COUNCIL MEMBER
ER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED